Structuring Your Research Thesis
Structuring Your
Research Thesis


Susan Carter
Frances Kelly
Ian Brailsford




palgrave
macmillan
© S. Carter, F. Kelly, I. Brailsford 2012

All rights reserved. No reproduction, copy or transmission of this
publication may be made without written permission.

No portion of this publication may be reproduced, copied or transmitted
save with written permission or in accordance with the provisions of the
Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988, or under the terms of any licence
permitting limited copying issued by the Copyright Licensing Agency,
Saffron House, 6-10 Kirby Street, London EC1N 8TS.

Any person who does any unauthorized act in relation to this publication
may be liable to criminal prosecution and civil claims for damages.

The authors have asserted their rights to be identiﬁed as the authors of this work
in accordance with the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988.

Published 2012 by
PALGRAVE MACMILLAN

Palgrave Macmillan in the UK is an imprint of Macmillan Publishers Limited,
registered in England, company number 785998, of Houndmills, Basingstoke,
Hampshire RG21 6XS.

Palgrave Macmillan in the US is a division of St Martin’s Press LLC,
175 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10010.

Palgrave Macmillan is the global academic imprint of the above companies
and has companies and representatives throughout the world.

Palgrave® and Macmillan® are registered trademarks in the United States,
the United Kingdom, Europe and other countries

ISBN 978-0-230-30813-8             ISBN 978-1-137-00936-4 (eBook)
DOI 10.1007/978-1-137-00936-4


This book is printed on paper suitable for recycling and made from fully
managed and sustained forest sources. Logging, pulping and manufacturing
processes are expected to conform to the environmental regulations of the
country of origin.

A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.

A catalog record for this book is available from the Library of Congress.

10 9        8    7     6    5     4    3     2    1
21 20      19   18    17   16    15   14    13   12
Contents




Acknowledgements                                      vii
Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers                  viii
  Our reader                                          viii
  Your readers                                        xiii

Introduction: Framework                                1
  Escape clause                                        5
  Layout of this book                                  6
  Contextualizing writing: working with conventions    9
  Moves and styles                                    11
  Interdisciplinary theses: which conventions?        14

1 Ordering the Thesis                                 16
  A basic model                                       17
  Mind-mapping and modelling the thesis               20
  The grid with two options                           21
  Broad versus specific fields                        24
  The literature review question                      26
  A four-way model                                    27
  Making use of methodology’s moves                   28
  The contents page and its implications              31
  Two basic approaches: write first; plan first       34
  Mnemonic theory: the architecture of the mind       36
  Mapping thematically                                38
  Ordering the thesis: suggestions for action         42
  Readerly needs                                      42

2 Emphasis and Proportion                             44
  Quantity ratios                                     45
  Levels of depth and voice                           48
  Grammatical emphasis                                50

                              v
vi   Contents


       Emphasis and proportion: suggestions for action   52
       Readerly needs                                    53

     3 Cohesion                                          54
       Narrative                                         54
       Metaphor for structure                            63
       Joinery: bringing the parts together              71
       Readerly needs                                    76

     Conclusion                                          78


     Bibliography                                        80
     Index                                               84
Acknowledgements



z
 Students

We are grateful to the thesis-writing students whose conversa-
tions over structuring challenges inspired this book, and the
participants in our survey who gave insight. Thesis-writing
students in our many classroom sessions on structuring a the-
sis enabled us to refine and consolidate our ideas on the proc-
ess, the product, why structure is difficult and what approaches
might be useful. We thank our students, some of whom are
now colleagues.


z
 Colleagues

We are also indebted to generous colleagues who contrib-
uted their lively personal stories, breathing more life into our
text: Ann Hutchison, Jackie Kidd, Nicholas Rowe, and Tony
Stroobant. We thank the Centre for Academic Development
for sustaining collegiality and funding. The Academic Women
Writers Group should be mentioned for their ongoing support
with thinking and writing. Palgrave Macmillan editorial staff,
especially Suzannah Burywood and Jennifer Schmidt, have
been encouraging and helpful with their direction. Ann Ed-
mondson was diligently attentive in proofing suggestions as
we went into print.
   And we also thank each other for sharing the journey.




                               vii
Preface: Our Reader and
Your Readers


z
 Our reader

The intended reader of this book is the thesis writer who is
struggling with the structure of their thesis. Many students
struggle, despite the fact that thesis writers are, for the most
part, crème-de-la-crème students, those who excelled in their
taught courses. One of the main differences between excelling
in taught courses and writing a thesis is that taught courses
have been mapped out by the lecturer and already designed to
make sense before students arrive. Considerable thought has
gone into the logical structure of the course materials, ideas
and progressions. However, the structural work of the thesis
must be done by the thesis author. A supervisor may help with
some decisions, but the responsibility for the structure and for
its logical progression and cohesion rests with the thesis can-
didate. For some students the task is relatively straightforward
whereas others find themselves in a rampant jungle without a
map. In this unforgiving terrain, thesis ideas multiply, tangle
together, morph and blend: maintaining a sense of order and
logic can be an epic battle of will.
   This book, informed by a survey of graduate student
experiences, was prompted by our observations, as learning
advisors, of the problems students have with structuring their
thesis. Other authors who have investigated the graduate stu-
dent experience confirm our opinion. Doctoral candidates can
find themselves with ‘large quantities of disparate data and lit-
tle developed idea about how to fit it all together, or to make
meaning from it’ (Wisker, 2001, p. 143). Amassing a plethora
of interesting data may make it even harder to produce the fin-
ished thesis because these data need to be ordered and struc-
tured. Planning the thesis structure seemingly requires ‘heroic
optimism’ (Dunleavy, 2003, p. 43). Facts need to be given a

                              viii
                          Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers         ix


story line so that they become coherent, yet ‘it is surprising-
ly easy to lose track of the central thread’ (Swetnam, 2003,
p. 108). The initial absence of a presentation plan is the ‘one
major difficulty students have’ (Rudestam and Newton, 2001,
p. 117). And there are ‘classic pitfalls in research design,’ inclu-
ding ‘putting the cart before the horse’, ‘great expectations’,
and ‘sand through the fingers’ (Rugg and Petre, 2005, p. 153).
Indeed, for many doctoral candidates, the need to structure the
written account – the thesis – may be more of a challenge than
the doctoral research itself (Carter, 2009).
   On a more encouraging note, the structuring process does
more than simply order material. The task of structuring is
unavoidable, yet the process establishes authorial control: the
result of a sound structure is more than a sum of the parts.
Writing of paragraph clarity, Davis and McKay note that ‘[T]he
clarity of … structure has the strategic effect of making [the
paragraph] seem authoritative. In this sense a text’s structural
features are simultaneously strategic’ (Davis and McKay, 1996,
p. 3). Control over structure gives authority to prose. Through
its emphasis, structure also covertly suggests the values of the
author, and self-awareness of their own context. The doctoral
thesis gives shape to an original idea. Shaping requires design:
the structure of the thesis is different from the structure of the
research. The research has its own order, but the thesis author
will need to consider the discipline-specific conventions of
writing, the regulatory requirements of a thesis and the read-
erly requirements of the examiner. Yet there is authorial power
in the writing process, with a wide scope for originality. The
structure of the research is driven by methodological consid-
eration, and by the dictates of time; the structure of the writing
can be designed to maximize the potential of the research find-
ings. This book suggests how to design a structure that fore-
grounds the significance of your research work.
   Many of those students who struggle with thesis design
will be candidates in arts, law, the humanities and social sci-
ences (including health systems, education and business
studies) whose research work is qualitative ‘soft’ science be-
cause these disciplines and their research theses are gener-
ally non-formulaic. It is useful at this juncture to consider the
work on ‘academic tribes and territories’ (Becher and Trowler,
x   Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers


    2001). Doctoral theses can be divided into four quadrants: ap-
    plied social sciences (such as education); technologies (such
    as mechanical engineering); humanities and pure social sci-
    ences (such as history and anthropology); and finally pure sci-
    ences (such as physics) (Becher, 1994). Doctoral students in
    the pure or hard sciences typically present their thesis data in
    a structured format that is universally accepted; doctoral stu-
    dents working in the other three quadrants have the blessing
    (or the curse) of more freedom to mould their thesis structure
    as they see fit.
        A student in our graduate survey, for instance, commented
    that ‘as my work is philosophical, there are many factors that
    all support one another, so it is difficult to know which one to
    start with, as it is all rather circular.’ Writing on research meth-
    ods for the arts and humanities, Wisker (2001, p. 266) notes
    that: ‘Much creative work takes place in the intersection of crit-
    ical perspectives, cultural contexts and the personal.’ This in-
    tersection is a busy one where discourses collide and must be
    fitted together with careful deliberation. The personal brings its
    own integrity to the exegetical thesis, but also its own idiosyn-
    crasies. Fitting the personal – uniquely shaped – into the con-
    fines of the thesis genre – which is convention based – requires
    careful tailoring. The thesis is the potential entry point to a fu-
    ture academic career, so the identity of the author, constructed
    through the writing, is important. The desired values underpin-
    ning the research need to inhere in the structure.
        Although one student in our survey reflected that ‘[structure
    is] a very intangible thing that you can only talk about once it
    is done and complete; during the process it’s so fluid that it’s
    hard to articulate upon’, here we broach the topic overtly, aim-
    ing to make the process more conceivable. To some extent this
    student is correct, and we acknowledge that for many students
    structure may only become fully clear to them in the final proc-
    ess of writing, or on completion, or even only on re-reading
    it years after completion. For some students, writing is part
    of the research methodology, the medium enabling exegetical
    thought. This book aims to provide more clarity about struc-
    turing choices earlier in the process. We include reflections on
    the structuring of the thesis by successful candidates in non-
    formulaic disciplines.
                         Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers        xi


    For many thesis writers, ideas on structure remain provi-
sional well into the process, and indeed, another graduate
student described the difficulty of structuring as the fact that
‘it feels like committing to a particular structure is like ruling
out many equally interesting and viable (possibly more vi-
able!) parallel universes.’ For others, it may seem that each
component of their original thesis design has in fact already
been investigated once they read in more depth. Nicholas tells
his story of persevering through the blind alleys of a practice-
based doctorate until he found his research question:

  I spent the first two years of my thesis flailing passionately
  through different areas of literature, endlessly discovering
  that what I thought would be my contribution to knowledge
  on dance had already been discussed elsewhere. These re-
  alizations were very demoralizing and sat on my shoulder
  like a nagging old parrot, constantly reinforcing a sense that
  I really didn’t have an original thought in my head and that
  perhaps academic research wasn’t really for me. I came to
  fear literature.
     Ultimately the thing that got me through this was remain-
  ing sensually, socially and politically immersed in my sub-
  ject area; in the dance scene of the Occupied Palestinian
  Territories. While I couldn’t clearly articulate a research idea
  that I thought was both unique and valuable in the first two
  doctoral years, an ephemeral sense that there was an im-
  portant study to be done there kept me hungry to conduct
  research and write it up for the world to see. When I did
  gain some clarity on my research quest(ion), it came charg-
  ing through like a snorting bull demanding to be followed,
  not led. It’s not that everything became clear at that point
  and that I then had an easy ride into the final submission of
  my thesis. So much information on the impact of cultural
  trauma on dance in the Occupied Palestinian Territories still
  had to be deciphered, analysed, evaluated, edited, gained
  and abandoned.
     Structuring the mountain of ideas that emerged into a
  coherent whole remained a huge challenge. But at least
  through the identification of a clear, valuable and unique re-
  search quest(ion), the demoralizing uncertainty was gone.
xii   Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers


             It’s odd in retrospect, because I had of course provided
          research questions in the initial proposals and reports to my
          supervisor and university. But in my heart I had known them
          to be a bit of a bluff. They were questions that sounded im-
          portant but were ultimately too large for me to ever answer
          or too small to be of any use. They felt like something to just
          buy me time, but I guess they also proved to be some sort of
          lighthouse when I felt like a boat lost in a fog. Perhaps as a
          result of the doctoral process I’ve come to fall in love with
          really good questions. They can make life so easy.

         Performance-based doctoral theses face particular chal-
      lenges in how the written work relates to the performance (or
      exhibition) when the culture and pedagogy of one may seem
      at loggerheads with those of the other. Nicholas’ experience
      demonstrates that sometimes you need to trust your own in-
      stincts and patiently keep working until you find clarity. Once
      the main research questions are found, however, it may still
      be difficult to decide on the order, and on the emphasis. Yet,
      since thesis writers do need to make decisions, and may be
      under external pressures to complete the doctorate within a
      shorter time than the full exploration of available universes
      would require, in the meantime it is worth remembering that a
      revision of structure (and of emphasis) lies open as an option
      for a published version once the thesis is complete. We hope
      that some of what follows will help in the meantime towards
      that first stage, the thesis completion. To this end, this book
      provides a set of models to assist your decision-making about
      thesis structure.
      Following the introduction, which covers a range of prelimi-
      nary issues and sketches some of the principles involved in
      the main chapters, the book comprises three parts. Successful
      structuring of a thesis is achieved at three different levels:

      1    the ordering of material,
      2    the emphasis achieved through the proportioning of mate-
           rial, and
      2    the finer structural detail that allows the parts to cohere.

      Thus, the three chapters of the book deal with ordering, em-
      phasis and cohesion, each made up of subtopics. It would be
                         Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers       xiii


possible, then, to read this book at the beginning of the doctor-
al project and follow its suggestions as navigational markers
through the wilderness of the thesis process. This makes sense
because ordering is an early consideration regarding thesis
layout, followed by the need to emphasize the themes that are
to be more significant over the less significant ones, and with
the need for coherence and cohesion before submission. In-
deed, anyone who is in the middle of their doctorate and find-
ing structure problematic might apply these approaches in the
hope that something here will give them insight into a viable
structure that will satisfy their examiners, even if it might not
be the structure of the book that will convey their thoughts to
the world in later publication. We hope, too, that readers well
into the thesis process and still unsure of their final structure
will find what works for them amongst a wide smorgasbord of
suggestions.
   Supervisors are also likely to find the book useful in anat-
omizing the dimensions of the structuring process. We hope
that it will enable clearer discussions to take place around
structure as a result of the smorgasbord of approache that this
book brings to thesis decision-making.
   Finally, any one of the chapters may seem more pertinent
than others due to the individual nature of each thesis project.
Because the book addresses the generic requirements of the
written thesis and is not discipline-focussed, you may find
some of the detail occasionally less relevant to your particular
project.


z
 Your readers

Publication beyond the confines of the thesis may be your ul-
timate desire for your research output, but the first part of the
process is finishing that thesis and passing the doctoral exami-
nation itself. The primary reader of the thesis is the examiner,
who must be satisfied that regulatory requirements have been
met. The examiner, the imagined reader or The Reader has
needs that are generated by their responsibility: they must be
able to sign off the thesis as complying with these expecta-
tions. A doctoral thesis generally must meet a fairly consistent
xiv   Preface: Our Reader and Your Readers


      set of criteria. With slight institutional variations of formal lan-
      guage, a doctoral thesis:
      z
       is an original contribution to knowledge or understand-
       ing in its field and
      z
       meets internationally recognized standards for such work
       and
      z
       demonstrates knowledge of the literature relevant to the
       subject and the field or fields from which the subject be-
       longs, and the ability to exercise critical and analytical
       judgement of it, and
      z
       is satisfactory in its methodology, in the quality and co-
       herence of its written expression, and in its scholarly
       presentation and format. (University of Auckland, 2011,
       pp. 7–8)
         In different countries, and in different institutions within
      countries, there will be found different processes of examina-
      tion, usually involving committees who oversee the process.
      Some institutions have an oral examination, and practices vary
      between private and public examination. The role of the super-
      visor in the process may vary. The requirement for examiners
      to be external from the institution may vary. However, inevi-
      tably, the earliest readers of your thesis will be those charged
      with examining it.
         An examiner is likely to feel the weight of their responsi-
      bility in making judgment and constructive comments on the
      thesis. These requirements, and the labours of the unknown
      examiner, often reading in the evening after a hard day’s work,
      should inform decisions about structure. The thesis has a nec-
      essarily critical reader, but one whose criteria are known, so
      that their needs can be met and anxiety allayed. To underscore
      this point, this book has the thesis writer as an intended reader,
      but there is another reader, the examiner, who is also con-
      stantly in mind. For this reason, we consider the thesis reader’s
      needs regarding the material of each chapter, including com-
      ments from examiners as to how they find, see and evaluate
      structure. Before we approach order, emphasis and cohesion,
      we introduce the overall framework that affects structuring
      decisions.
Introduction: Framework



All writing is validated in terms of how well it addresses its
audience. We have written this book following our work with
doctoral students and our recognition of the challenge of pub-
lication. Similar doctoral candidates of the future make up our
audience. Like others’ theses, yours must speak to its audience,
addressing their needs, anxieties and expectations. As you start
working and writing your thesis proposal, initial ideas will de-
velop further and these present a set of challenges, or at least
decisions that need to be made. The proposal stage has been
likened to a ‘trial run’ (Sternberg, 1981, p. 73) for structuring
the doctoral thesis. How many chapters should you have in
your thesis? Must all the chapters be of a similar size? Will you
provide the literature review as a separate chapter, or embed it
throughout the thesis? How much explaining and framing will
be done generally in the introduction, and how much will be
done at chapter level? How many levels of subtitling will work
best to convey your ideas? Should the thesis have internal divi-
sions within it rather than conventional chapter ones? These
are questions of structure: the overall shape of the thesis, its
organization, its internal dimensions and parts, its plan and
duration, and its proportions.
   At the same time as these questions are being raised, most
thoughtful candidates are acutely aware that they are embark-
ing on a different writing project from anything that they have
ever done before. Several useful handbooks give guidance as to
the genre of the thesis. Examiners will need to confirm that you
demonstrate your awareness of writing in this genre. We cite
several handbooks here as appropriate (including Dunleavy,
2003; Murray, 2011; Phillips and Pugh, 2001; Wisker, 2001). Of
these, Dunleavy focuses most overtly on the structuring proc-
ess, offering a good practical working model that is well worth
consideration. However, in our experience many doctoral au-
thors are persuaded by loyalty to their research material to

                                1
2   Structuring Your Research Thesis


    resist the good workable standard model, or at least to want to
    elaborate or adapt it rather drastically.
       Jacqui, for instance, reflected on the way that her data were
    so sensitive that her thesis structure had to be changed so that
    the whole stories she obtained from her participants would be
    represented, privileging their voices and accounts more than
    the analysis she imposed on them.

      My research was in the sensitive area of nurses who have
      experienced a mental illness. I was using a highly qualitative
      methodology which involved collecting stories from my par-
      ticipants, and writing emotional stories and poems as a part
      of my analysis. The combination of the sensitivity of the top-
      ic and the creative methodology meant that the traditional
      thesis structure was unlikely to work for my thesis. The par-
      ticular issue I faced was how to re-present the stories I was
      given as data in such a way that treated the participants with
      care, while allowing me the space I needed to analyse the
      stories, and that also demonstrated methodological rigour.
         It took lots of supervision sessions and many trials of
      different structures before I settled on one that I am still
      pleased with, several years later. I included the participants’
      stories, in their entirety, in my thesis. I had 18 stories, which
      was about 32,000 words, so I applied to the university for
      permission to submit a longer-than-usual thesis. The inclu-
      sion of the nurses’ stories demonstrated respect; it meant
      that they weren’t chopped up and used only from my per-
      spective – the nurses retained their own voice in my work.
      It also meant that my examiners and readers could access
      the data and draw their own conclusions about my analysis.
      Making the process of analysis explicit is a vital part of dem-
      onstrating quality research, and is particularly important in
      the creative qualitative methodologies.
         I also deliberately used the stories to interrupt the aca-
      demic voice in my final structure choice. I was wary of creat-
      ing a document that was theoretical and therefore removed
      from the reality of life as experienced by the nurses, so I
      carefully placed their stories between chapters, making sure
      that their ‘real life’ voices disrupted the flow of academic
      reading and required readers to stop and reflect on lived
                                       Introduction: Framework      3


  experience, or flick through pages to relocate the academic
  voice.
     My literature review followed the pattern of the inter-
  posed stories and analysis. I used a broad literature review
  in the second chapter to position my research, but the more
  specific literature was introduced at the end of the three
  findings’ chapters in response to the issues that were raised
  by my participants. This is a common approach in qualita-
  tive methodologies such as grounded theory, where the data
  guides the direction of the research. It worked well to rein-
  force my position as ‘student’ listening to the experiences of
  my participants, and not only made the thesis easier to read
  by breaking up the long and dense parts of my writing, but
  overtly valued the nurses’ voices.

   Jacqui’s experience is not unusual in qualitative research
theses because this method of gathering data values the phe-
nomenology of the participants, giving deeper understandings
to their experiences. Similarly, in exegetical theses – ones that
unpack and interpret some aspect of the world – the structure
may be tantamount to the methodology. Along with the voice
of the prose, which establishes academic identity, structure will
subtly suggest the values that underpin the research through
the emphasis of its form. Structure shapes thought.
   The thesis presents thought, some of which is original,
within a supportive framework of institutional convention. The
writer is aware of academic discipline. Most theses are situated
within one discipline, but increasing numbers are interdisci-
plinary. The third cycle of the Bologna Process (Department
for Education and Skills, 2007) emphasizes the benefits of
interdisciplinary research, extolling universities as the organi-
zations to foster this: the world is undisciplined and perhaps
doctoral research should be more about the world than about
the conventions. Yet two things must happen even in an inter-
disciplinary thesis: there must be a flaring spark of originality
and a solid framework evidencing academic expertise. How
greatly can that spark be fanned without risk of burning down
the supporting framework of discipline scholarship? Aware-
ness of discipline conventions must be demonstrated, along
with awareness of the thesis genre.
4   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       A doctoral thesis changes the world. To some extent the the-
    sis is an example of effective, and indeed, affective, language
    where words do something (Austin, 1975) rather than just talk-
    ing about something. Austin’s examples of how to do things
    with language are taken from words like ‘I do’ in the marriage
    ceremony, or ‘not guilty’ in a court room. The completion of
    the thesis, similarly, makes a real change in the world: it will
    change both the status of its author and the state of the dis-
    ciplinary discourse. Structuring the thesis is part of this trans-
    formational writing process. Its significance for some authors
    deepens the difficulty of choice. Critical theory may prompt
    you to leave the conventional structural thesis shape in order
    to ensure that form follows function. Allegiance to your subject
    might also suggest creative possibilities for non-conventional
    structure. At the same time, it is good to have a firm grasp
    on what a thesis is and what it does so that you ensure your
    success. You will need to negotiate the tension between thesis
    genre conventions (established within the walls of the univer-
    sity) and the value systems of your unique topic (belonging
    to the chaos of the world). You are the diplomat who cross-
    es boundaries and pulls conflicting cultures into a functional
    working relationship with each other to the mutual benefit of
    both.
       Structure involves order, emphasis and cohesion. For the-
    sis writers, order is most pressing. How will the contents page
    show logical order? When materials, ideas, and data develop
    with what may seem like fervid fertility, figuring out where ma-
    terial belongs best in the written thesis can be challenging.
    Parry (2007, p. 83) quotes a doctoral student describing dif-
    ficulty structuring their thesis until they eventually ‘met some-
    one who said, “look, you’ve got to adopt one angle and chop
    off a lot of the not-so-related stuff”. It’s been a lot easier since
    then.’ Battle metaphors and ‘chopping off’ seem appropriate;
    it may feel like doing violence to the multidimensional mate-
    rial to batter it into one finite form. Sometimes everything is so
    interrelated that separation seems like mutilation.
       Perhaps it is not surprising that it is difficult to identify the
    boundaries of the thesis perimeter since they do not exist,
    but rather, they need to be created, justified and maintained
    by the thesis author. The process is somewhat arbitrary. Your
                                       Introduction: Framework       5


thoughts, data and material may have the potential for sev-
eral different theses, and yet you must choose which one you
will produce. This is a little like choosing a Turkish carpet: the
selection may be roughly similar, and precisely which single
one’s patterns, colours, size and price (in terms of time rather
than money) you settle upon can seem overwhelming. In the
end, it will be your task to make choices and then make them
work cohesively. You can have only one thesis.
   Cohesion is established structurally through order and pro-
portion, yet this needs to be maintained with linguistic devices.
These may be undetectable if they function well, just as the
mechanic’s careful tinkering is not evident once the car is purr-
ing along the highway. The cohesive manipulation of struc-
tural language should consciously synchronize with the over-
all design. Architectural principles apply: order and proportion
give function and stability to the text, but a cohesive design
establishes the identity and presence of the construction.
   For some non-formulaic theses, structure will be bound to-
gether with content. It may be that the material of the thesis
yields the structural patterning from its own deeper levels. The
symbolism of the subject, the subjective stance of the author,
the metaphors of a text, the mindset of the people under in-
vestigation or their theoretical models are but a few examples
of the topic’s potential to provide a structure modelled on the
material. We give concrete examples below (Chapter 3), but
suggest that all of the approaches work best when they reso-
nate meaningfully with your own unique material. Some ap-
proaches may be irrelevant, but we hope that something here
will be useful. Structure could become a significant dimension
of the creativity of your writing production. A thesis need not
aspire to being a work of art, yet it does need to convince ex-
aminers that it is an adequate example of the genre.


z
 Escape clause

The actual task of writing a thesis requires careful crafting to
ensure balance and proportion. Everything that follows is pref-
aced by this qualification: your thesis does not need to be a
magnum opus. You do not need to save the world by writing
6   Structuring Your Research Thesis


    it, nor do you need to produce perfection. You won’t produce
    perfection: almost every thesis writer has their own anecdote
    about the typos they found in the final edition despite an editing
    effort of mammoth proportions. Further, as you look at other
    examples of theses, you are likely to be struck at times by how
    flat-footed they are, how many are the small imperfections of
    one kind or another, and how few and far between are your
    moments of real interest and admiration. The advice, then, is
    to be practical. You need to finish the thesis but its comple-
    tion is likely to be just another milestone in the trajectory of
    your research investigation. We stress that you should take the
    most direct route to a good submitted thesis: go the short way
    round the barn whenever you can figure out which way that is.
    However, those who find that structure is a challenge will find
    a set of suggestions in this book to hone their decision-making
    abilities around structuring issues.


    z
     Layout of this book

    The book takes a series of approaches to the structuring issues
    that we have built into three central chapters: order, emphasis
    and cohesion, with acknowledgment of the reader’s needs in
    each instance. To some extent the division of the three main
    sections is arbitrary in that the levels of structure work togeth-
    er. Order is perhaps the most evident step in structure, given
    that written work is linear.
       In Chapter 1, we first look at the principle behind the order
    in which parts of the thesis appear: the generic movement of
    the thesis, the moves that every thesis must demonstrate to
    satisfy examiners. These are usually established in the thesis
    introduction. We then focus on order within the thesis. Our
    suggestions about the implications of emphasis are based on
    practical experience.
       We suggest a basic structural model to set alongside your
    own and discuss what it offers those for whom such a basic
    formula is not ideal. There are some moves that every thesis
    will make. Once you have identified what these are, you can
    decide where in your own work you are likely to make them.
    If you recognize that some of the thesis moves will be made
                                       Introduction: Framework       7


somewhat unusually in your work, you are in a stronger posi-
tion to defend your choices in your methodology section, how-
ever you present it.
   We then suggest that you experiment with cognitive car-
tography, developing a mind-map into a diagrammatic mod-
el, or set of possible models, drawn out visually on the page.
Mind-mapping allows you to identify the features that will be
part of your work by spreading them onto a page so that the
larger overview is visible in a non-hierarchical order. Model-
ling makes a deliberate pattern of the nouns that proliferate on
your mind-map and begins to apply structure to these nouns.
Some of the verb ideas that exist between the mind-map’s
nouns may be the most important arguments of your thesis
and thus most important to structure; these will influence the
diagram. We then look at Davis and McKay’s grid model (Davis
and McKay, 1996) as an example of the way diagrams convey
the meaning you will make of the facts in your work. Shifting
from vertical to horizontal (or vice versa) in the diagram of
your model will shift the privileging of content.
   At this stage we turn to the parts of the thesis that convey
the genre moves. We mention the questions of where literature
will be reviewed, where methodology will be shown, and the
need to distinguish broad general material from detailed. We
then discuss the contents page, one space that directly displays
the structure of the thesis. There are many ways to build this
page, and each has its advantages and disadvantages. Your
discipline, epistemology and individual preference, even your
individual strengths and weaknesses, will influence your con-
tents page layout. Translating your diagrammatic model to a
contents page gives another lens to the structuring process.
   Observing that two interconnected processes (writing and
planning) take the thesis structuring forward, we then move
on to mnemonic theory from the past. Mnemonic theory of-
fers another slant that literalizes the metaphor of writing struc-
ture as building structure. Mnemonic principles come from an
essentially pre-literate era and were formulated and refined
to enable the memory to be developed; in other words, this
system was designed to enable extensive material to be held
in the mind rather than on the page (or screen). Mnemonics
does this through ordering the material to be remembered and
8   Structuring Your Research Thesis


    providing vivid images at strategic points: order is the method
    of mnemonics, which is what makes the theory useful to thesis
    writers.
        In Chapter 2 on emphasis and proportion, we introduce a
    quantitative approach to the thesis. It can be hard to judge how
    much detail and explanation is necessary; thinking quantita-
    tively can help delimination. We suggest ways to accommodate
    the need for unwieldy bulk in the thesis. We consider the diffi-
    culties when there are multiple levels of depth and voice, such
    as when the thesis investigates one period’s representation of
    an earlier one, using current theory as well as theory that is
    contemporary with both periods. Then we review some of the
    grammatical principles that establish emphasis in writing.
        In Chapter 3, we begin our discussion of structural cohesion
    by unpacking the commonplace notion that every thesis tells
    a story. Stories have their own conventions, and overt consid-
    eration of these may help you control the story of your thesis
    by using narrative conventions and the terms that belong to
    a specific genre. Even if you do not decide to actively employ
    these conventions, you should avoid abusing them.
        Because it makes use of the complex semiotics of poetic lan-
    guage, metaphor can also be a strong structuring device. Met-
    aphors that have a cultural underpinning enable a researcher
    to inhabit a social or cultural space simultaneously with their
    academic one. Cultural metaphors demonstrate the way that
    metaphor can contribute to methodology, and our examples
    make explicit the deep-level functioning of metaphor to carry
    one set of connotative meaning into another field. Finally, we
    pay attention to the joinery of the thesis, providing a checklist
    of strategies for achieving this while suggesting that this work
    can be used to inculcate and underscore the values that are
    important to your work.
        Each approach concludes with a suggestion of how you
    might apply this approach to your own work. If structure is a
    burning issue, then something here should be of use. Even if
    it is not foremost in your current goals and challenges, if you
    have days when you feel that you need re-inspiration then you
    could try some of these options so that the structure and the
    content of your thesis develop cohesively together. Structure is
                                        Introduction: Framework        9


dependent upon content. Content is generative of style. At the
same time, however, you need to make the moves required of
every thesis to the satisfaction of the examiner. Furthermore,
you must also observe disciplinary conventions and maintain
the integrity of your research data. Thesis style commonly var-
ies slightly throughout the thesis. Often, for example, the in-
troduction is written in fairly easy-to-read prose while sections
that deal with theory are denser. The next section discusses
some of the ways that the required moves of the thesis may
affect style and also structure.


z
 Contextualizing writing: working with
 conventions

Most of the time, academic writers use writing conventions
without concerning themselves unduly with their purpose
or the historical context out of which they arise. Nonethe-
less, there is a school of thought which argues that academic
writing should be looked at rather than through because its
function – communicating research findings – is so significant.
To put it another way: it is sometimes important to be reflective
about writing so that we can put it to its best use.
   Thesis writing, according to Kamler and Thomson (2006),
is all-too-often approached as a set of problems to do with
grammar and style, and is not considered as a complex work.
Accordingly, they regard writing guides for doctoral students
as offering a ‘one size fits all’ mode that is fairly reductive. The
basic thesis structure that we discuss in Chapter 1 is a generic
form to which these authors take exception. They argue that,
because it is pre-determined, it disallows the speciﬁc argument
of the project to provide the overarching structure for the the-
sis (Kamler and Thomson, 2006, pp. 84–5). We agree, adding
that structure choices are often difficult because they affect
what the thesis actually becomes in terms of its underpinning
values (axiology). The strategy suggestions in this book are not
simple recipes you might decide to follow, but are instead a
series of perspectives on the potential of your material which
are designed to aid decisions.
10   Structuring Your Research Thesis


        Furthermore, for many thesis authors word choice, voice
     and style, and the actual writing of the thesis, create the au-
     thor’s academic position and identity. The phrase writing up,
     as Kamler and Thomson point out, disguises the fact that re-
     search findings are produced in the process of writing, and are
     not simply transmitted (2006, p. 5). Taking their cue from Rich-
     ardson (1990), these authors maintain that writing is research,
     or at least a part of it, and not a separate activity.
        Like these authors, we regard thesis writing as necessarily
     occurring within institutional expectations and conventions.
     Kamler and Thomson’s book, aimed primarily at supervi-
     sors, encourages readers to regard the production of doctoral
     theses as a process that is situated in broader discursive con-
     texts. It occurs within ‘a particular time/place/tradition’ (2006,
     p. 8). Their work is in line with poststructuralist ideas about
     language, which emphasize that it is less a transparent me-
     dium than a concrete or visible ‘set of social relations’ (Bleich,
     2001, p. 119). We highlight throughout the book that thesis
     writing contextualizes your voice within your discipline’s dis-
     course: it is an act of social engagement, a commitment to a
     community.
        For thesis writers, it is important to make considered use
     of the conventions of thesis writing in order to produce a the-
     sis text appropriate to the context. As Rankin (2001, pp. 67–8)
     writes:

       Although conventions, like social manners, always evolve
       for a purpose, once in place they can sometimes calcify and
       feel more like meaningless rules than useful templates. If
       we follow these ‘rules’ without thinking about them, we risk
       making our writing dull and mechanical. If we understand
       and use conventions wisely, however, we generally find that
       they help us to communicate effectively.

        Next we briefly look at some of the conventional moves of
     thesis writing and reflect on their purpose. As Rankin suggests,
     gaining an understanding of the conventions of disciplinary
     style and structure can assist a writer in communicating ef-
     fectively. We consider some of these below.
                                        Introduction: Framework       11


z
 Moves and styles

To begin with introductions, you could consider how their style
contributes to their role in the thesis’s social engagement.
Why should an introduction be written in a simple prose style,
leaving the more complex work for a later point in the thesis?
Readers need to be ushered in to any text with decorum. If you
were having a dinner party (to use a well-worn metaphor for
research writing), you wouldn’t hand over the lamb roast the
instant someone removed their coat. You would, we hope, first
draw them into a warm and inviting room, offer a drink, and
gradually move to a light aperitif or entree, before the main
event. Readers and diners alike need to be able to build a sense
of anticipation and to establish comfort and familiarity. Intro-
ductions (as the term indicates) familiarize the entrant with the
situation they are in and gradually prepare them for what is to
follow.
   For the introduction to ease the reader into the text, it needs
to be engaging, clear, and convey a sense of moving forward.
It could be a point in the text where you outline the reasons
why you undertook the research and the choices you have
made in conducting it, and so it might have more of your pres-
ence in the text. Often the first-person pronoun is used in the
introduction, disappearing once theory, method and data are
in focus later in the thesis. Ideally, the introduction should also
convey your enthusiasm for the project; if there is a point at
which you show some passion for what you have done, the
introduction is it!
   The style will shift throughout the thesis. In a section where
you are for the most part discussing other literature, which
may or may not be a discrete ‘literature review’, as we will
discuss in Chapter 1, the style of writing might move between
a descriptive or summarizing mode to a more analytical and
argumentative mode. The writing style might also be quite de-
scriptive when accounting for a method used or what was done
in the research. Theoretical sections, on the other hand, may
produce your most gnarly prose: you may find that you need to
grapple most with these parts of the thesis as you try to express
complex ideas in an accessible style.
12   Structuring Your Research Thesis


        What we are suggesting is that structure, the organization
     of a written text, must work in tandem with considerations
     of style and voice, or the mode of writing. This brings us back
     to disciplinary conventions: as with structure, a thesis writer’s
     voice is produced within a particular set of conventions. Read-
     ers in each field come to the text with expectations, and a de-
     sire to be greeted in a way that is familiar. Every writer learns
     to ‘speak’ in the language of the discipline to communicate
     with others. Eik-Nes (2008, pp. 185–6) addresses this issue and
     makes the distinction between ‘front stage’ writing and ‘back
     stage’ writing:

       In writing, we can consider front stage writing as the genres
       we write for a particular audience. Examples of front stage
       writing for an engineer would be reports, grant applications,
       research articles and formal letters. For each of these types
       of writing there are conventions that must be adhered to,
       and failure to follow the conventions may result in the read-
       er (audience) refusing to even consider the text…
          Back stage writing, on the other hand, is a more pri-
       vate type of text. Examples of back stage writing are dia-
       ries, writers’ notes to themselves, early drafts of texts that
       may eventually be public texts. In these back stage texts,
       writers are not constrained by their readers’ demands and
       expectations.

        Eik-Nes suggests that thesis writers can practise the ‘front
     stage’ mode in the ‘back stage’ texts by trying out different
     voices and working with disciplinary conventions to see what
     works. It is important that a writer can master the language
     of their field of research in order to come across as having au-
     thority in that discipline.
        As we have found in our work with doctoral students, thesis
     writers don’t necessarily gain a broad perspective on the work-
     ings and conventions of other fields but usually do have fa-
     miliarity with their own. If they were to ‘cross over’, however,
     and read (or, better, write) in another style, it might throw into
     relief the conventions of their own. To facilitate this kind of
     comparison, Madigan et al. (1995) compare 25 articles taken
     from scholarly journals in four different fields: literary criticism,
                                        Introduction: Framework       13


history and two areas of psychology. Their analysis focusses
on the use in each field of four stylistic markers: citations, quo-
tations, subheadings and discursive footnotes. As the authors
observe, the different uses of these stylistic markers give ‘each
discipline its own characteristic voice’ (1995, pp. 429–30).
    We want to draw attention here to one of these stylistic
markers – the use of subheadings – to demonstrate how a struc-
tural move is grounded in disciplinary convention. According
to the study by Madigan et al., subheadings are not common in
literary criticism and history, but are widely used as a structur-
ing and rhetorical device in psychology and other branches of
the sciences. Whereas transitional devices like bridging para-
graphs signal what is to come in literary studies or history, in
the sciences, subheadings function to announce the next ma-
jor topic. This reduces the need for authors to make the (more
wordy) transitional moves to connect different sections of the
text, allowing a written style characterized by brevity (Madi-
gan et al., 1995).
    However, when one of us (Frances) wrote her own doctoral
thesis in literary studies, she decided to use subheadings. It
was not common, as far as she could tell from other theses,
but she felt that subheadings would help make connections
between different parts of the text. The linear argument and
transitional phrasing helped propel the thesis forward whereas
the subheadings helped the reader to make links backward by
echoing earlier terms. Although her supervisor was initially
sceptical about the use of this device, by the completion of the
thesis the supervisor agreed that the subheadings worked well
to give shape to the thesis text. Our own survey of students
found that they commonly used more subheadings in their
thesis than in earlier papers, in line with the different reader
requirements of a longer work.
    Not only does mastering the conventions of a discipline
grant the author a degree of authority, but it can also mean
that you are in a better position to subvert them and place your
own stamp on your thesis. Poets play with traditional Shake-
spearean or Petrarchan fourteen-line sonnet forms to make a
point: my love is different, new, unconventional, and therefore
my sonnet reflects that. Shakespeare himself is well-known for
having utilized and reworked traditional writing conventions
14   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     (even inventing new words) and for having adapted the
     Petrarchan sonnet form for his own ends. A central message
     of this book is that, if the traditional form doesn’t work for the
     specific content, as Shakespeare found, adapt it.


     z
      Interdisciplinary theses: which
      conventions?

     ‘What was hard about structuring my thesis was the fact that
     I don’t have one discipline’s guidelines to follow and yet my
     supervisors each have their own ideas of structure based on
     their disciplinary backgrounds,’ reflected one of our gradu-
     ate student survey participants. If thesis production occurs in
     particular disciplinary contexts – each of which has its own
     conventions – the implications are that, for students who cross
     disciplinary boundaries, there are likely to be some challenges.
     Textual features that are commonplace in one discipline can
     mark the author as an ‘outsider’ in another field.
        There are several strategies for interdisciplinary writers
     grappling with two different sets of conventions. One is to try
     ‘back stage’ writing in each style to test which fits best with the
     research topic. Alternatively, a ‘front stage’ test is to contribute
     to a journal that uses the less familiar conventions, thereby
     really stretching yourself to get to grips with its idiosyncrasies.
     You can make use of appendices so that material is available
     for readers who need it, but optional and so not distracting for
     those who don’t.
        On the plus side, learning to write in a variety of modes
     renders writers very flexible. This flexibility enables writers to
     ‘speak’ with confidence or authority in a range of written situa-
     tions and contexts. If you do have to make a choice concerning
     which set of conventions to follow for structure and style, there
     are some issues to consider:

     z
      Which conversation are you likely to contribute to? What
      are the structure and style conventions used by the re-
      searchers you most often refer to, reference and read?
      What are the conventions of the journals you are most
      likely to be publishing in?
                                     Introduction: Framework      15


z
 Which style fits best with the purpose of your text, or the
 nature of the research you have undertaken? It is difficult,
 to take an obvious example, to undertake textual analysis
 in American Psychological Association (APA) style or to
 discuss participant responses in Modern Language Asso-
 ciation (MLA) style.
z
 Which disciplines are your readers or examiners more
 likely to be from?
z
 Which structural mode or style do you prefer? Which fits
 best with your preferred style of writing?

Develop some questions of your own that enable you to make
decisions on structure, based on what matters most to you
about your research project. Consider the deepest level of your
research. What values drive you? These may be the best drivers
of your structural choices.
1 Ordering the Thesis



Deciding on the order in which you will present the entire
research project is perhaps the foremost decision you will
make about the written thesis. Often at the proposal stage and
before much writing or research has been done, a contingent
contents page will be drawn up as a way of making the project
more concrete and tangible. Thomas and Brubaker (2000)
suggest that you consider what you would ask if you ‘knew
nothing about this topic and … wanted to know about this re-
search’ and then think about the order in which you would like
to have your questions answered (p. 245). At the early stages,
the structure of the written thesis may blurrily overlap with the
expected progression of the research project. To some extent
this is entirely appropriate because the end goal of the research
project is, for most candidates, the finished thesis. Research
design necessarily responds to the requirements of the thesis
genre, discipline epistemology (which affects methods) and
the candidate’s deepening understanding of their material.
   We do not intend to downplay the complexity of structur-
ing decision-making, but suggest here that what is generally
accepted as the basic model of the thesis gives a useful foun-
dational understanding of the expectations of every thesis. Al-
though the diagrammatic use of mind-maps and models can
be helpful for getting your head around all the components
of your thesis – and we discuss these below (p. 20) – a basic
function of structure is to enable clear demonstration that the
academic requirements of every thesis have been fulfilled in
yours. First, then, a very basic thesis model operates like a sim-
ple recipe, showing the essentials that your thesis is likely to
have somewhere. Just as you could adapt the general princi-
ples of a recipe by adding or omitting some ingredients, use
the basic structure as a pattern that you can adapt in different
ways while following the underpinning principles.
                              16
                                            Ordering the Thesis     17


z
 A basic model

The following model is often called ‘the basic science struc-
ture’. Some arts, humanities and social science theses use this
model as well. We suspect that by doing so they are claiming
the prestige of scientific research, and making it easy for an
examiner to see the ‘thesisliness’ of the work. They are also
following a tried-and-tested formula. If this structure works for
you, then you might consider reading no further. However, you
may already have been introduced to the science-based struc-
ture and found it difficult to apply to your topic, which is why
you are now reading this book. The basic model is as follows:

z
 Introduction: Why am I doing this research? What is the
 problem? What is the research question? What are the
 hypotheses?
z
 Literature review: What is already known? Where is the
 gap I will fill? Which issues, contentions, discourses from
 the literature are relevant to my research?
z
 Aims: What do I hope to find out?
z
 Methodology: How will I proceed? What theory will I use?
 What is my epistemology? What are my methods?
z
 Results: What have I found?
z
 Discussion: What does it mean?
z
 Conclusion: What is my contribution to knowledge?
z
 Recommendations

   Different advice manuals elaborate this basic model. Glat-
thorn (1998) points out that ‘there are many variations to this
basic pattern’ and considers that, for example, ‘in some disser-
tations the methodology is so implicit in the nature of the in-
quiry that … no separate treatment is needed’ (p. 124). Murray
(2011, p. 144) suggests using the basic or ‘generic’ model as the
starting point in designing a thesis. Swetnam (2003, p. 44) adds
that the introduction will additionally answer: ‘Who is likely to
be interested in it? What is the possible use of the research?
What is the locus and focus?’ The basic model will work for
some students, but the nature of the particular research project
and its significance should always take precedence over the
formula: that is the mark of a doctoral thesis.
18   Structuring Your Research Thesis


        Thomas and Brubaker (2000, p. 245) suggest a slightly dif-
     ferent basic outline that suits a theoretically-based thesis:

       Chapter 1    The Nature of the Problem and its Significance
       Chapter 2    Theory for Interpreting the Phenomenon that is
                    Studied
       Chapter 3    The Research Design for Testing the Theory
       Chapter 4    Data Collection
       Chapter 5    A Report of the Results
       Chapter 6    An Analysis of the Results
       Chapter 7    Implications of the Study’s Outcomes

        What Thomas and Brubaker label ‘Chapter 1’ might usually
     be called ‘Introduction’ or ‘Background’; their logical flow for-
     ward maps onto the basic model when this change is made.
     You can see from these variations that there is a standard for-
     ward movement from the background, which might include
     the work already done in the area, the theories used in the
     context of the discipline’s possibilities, through the methods, to
     what was found (new knowledge or understanding) and what
     it means, including ideas for future research. The evident, pre-
     dictable drive forward gives rise to the truism that each doc-
     toral thesis tells a story.
        Readers feel more confident when the thesis obligingly fol-
     lows their narrative expectations. Although many disciplines
     prefer more individually-designed structures in journal articles
     and books, it is possible to find theses within these disciplines
     that adapt the hard sciences’ formulaic language around a set
     structure: introduction, literature review, methodology, results
     and discussion. Such adaptation is a defence mechanism, giv-
     en that some of the so-called ‘softer disciplines’ experienced
     years of self-justification before being fully accepted as legiti-
     mate scholarly disciplines. Are you an innovator who enjoys
     risky work, blazing out trails, or someone who prefers the
     safety of staying on the well-trodden path? If you are anxious
     about your work being accepted, you could consider using
     some hard science terms, perhaps even as a contingency plan,
     at the outset, with the intention of replacing these terms with
     something cognitively more sophisticated during the process
     of writing the thesis.
                                            Ordering the Thesis      19


    Even the most risk-comfortable researcher, however,
should also use the basic model as a checklist for the work
which needs to be demonstrated in their written thesis. One
very obvious consideration is where the literature will be re-
viewed. Other approaches to the basic model give different un-
derstandings of the components of the topic – how they might
fit together and what shifts with the various possibilities – and
thus help to establish perimeters to the thesis. The order of the
moves that the thesis makes should ensure the strongest pos-
sible presentation of the research work.
    In some disciplines, the basic thesis formulae would look
simplistic. However, the work done by these sections of a sci-
ence thesis will also be done in one way or another by the
exegetical thesis. Wisker, giving consideration to arts and hu-
manities theses, proposes that a typical thesis plan is:
  title; abstract; preface/acknowledgements; introduction;
  literature review/theoretical perspectives chapter; method-
  ology and methods explored and explained, including the
  design of the study; presentation of findings and results (a
  separate chapter for scientists only): for social scientists,
  arts and humanities students, the results, or data, are seen
  as evidence for the argument, findings and claims based
  on the research, and they appear in a dialogue with such
  claims, that is, presentation and discussion of results, analy-
  sis, arguments, development of ideas based on results—
  interpretation of findings; conclusions: both factual (what
  was found) and conceptual (what does it mean? what does
  it add to meaning and understanding about the area/field/
  issues?) appendices/statistical tables and illustrations; bibli-
  ography. (Wisker, 2008, pp. 281–2)
   Even if you use the basic outline as one to resist and work
against, we expect that knowing what it declares to be appro-
priate will help you to produce a more elaborate artifice.
   If the science model looks like a workable one for you, per-
haps with some adaptation, then the outline of your thesis
structure is in place and you can move to the next level of
structuring. Rountree endorses taking the path most usually
taken, expanding on the metaphor ‘thesis as journey’ with a
vivid inset story:
20   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       As we snaked up Ruapehu [a tall snow-covered New Zea-
       land mountain] the guides gave us nifty tips, one of which
       was to plant your boot in someone else’s bootprint to avoid
       slipping on the glassy virgin snow. It worked. With a the-
       sis too, if you want to cut down on the risk of slipping off
       track and losing your way, perhaps permanently, it is safer
       to take the well-trod path – to examine other theses, choose
       a methodology, structure and style you admire and think
       will work, adapting it to suit you and your particular project.
       This sounds like dull advice, but doing a thesis at all is ad-
       venturous enough. (Rountree and Laing, 1996, pp. vi–vii)
       If following a basic generic thesis structure will work for
     you, follow the path most commonly taken. Your research
     topic should provide some adventure even as you follow the
     well-trod path.


     z
      Mind-mapping and modelling the thesis

     Some doctoral candidates find visually-conveyed information
     especially accessible. You may be familiar with mind-mapping
     as a way of getting an overview of all of the potential compo-
     nents of your thesis. To mind-map, one begins with a central
     idea which then spreads out with more ideas that emerge from
     the central one. More is better. A page covered in radiating
     nouns can show the topic’s most promising connections. The
     strength of mind-mapping is that it side-steps structuring deci-
     sions, freeing up the potential issues, themes, topics and back-
     grounds to speak of their own accord without your authorial
     structuring. Mind-mapping allows you to trace through your
     material from different directions, opening up some of those
     possible parallel universes mentioned in the Preface. It should
     also allow you to select which one you will inhabit, and to
     move on from the chaotic mind-map to a diagrammatic model.
     The mind-map can be activated as a concept map (Novak,
     1998), which adds the verb connections between the nouns of
     the mind-map. The verbs establish which of the terms gener-
     ate others, which restrict or compromise others, and so on: the
     verbs begin to make sense of the geography of the map.
                                            Ordering the Thesis     21


   The next stage of the process is to start imposing structure
onto the mind-map’s insights by making a working diagram of
the terms that seem most promising. The diagram pattern may
begin with nouns that form the topic of the thesis, but the verbs
of the concept map should suggest ways of fitting the ideas to-
gether. What geometric shape best accommodates your ideas?
Dunleavy (2003) recommends graphic devices such as boxes,
lines and arrows to help structure the ideas. These may be de-
veloped further to give a geometric shape to your work. Often
a grid, like the example that we discuss next, works well.



z
 The grid with two options

Once you have a diagram, play with it a little for improve-
ments. Davis and McKay (1996) provide a diagrammatic ex-
ample that involves reorientation from the model of a grid sys-
tem. Discussing comparison and contrast, they further observe
what they perceive to be the two main options of structure: the
topic-by-topic approach and the point-by-point method.
  In the topic-by-topic approach, sometimes called the divid-
ed approach, each topic is discussed separately. This can be
represented as follows:

  Topic-by-topic structure:
  Topic 1
    Point a
    Point b
    Point c
  Topic 2
    Point a
    Point b
    Point c

   The second approach is the point-by-point method, some-
times called the alternating method. Here the first point is de-
veloped for each topic, then the second point for each topic
and so on.
22   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       Point-by-point structure:
       Point A
         Topic 1
         Topic 2
       Point B
         Topic 1
         Topic 2
       Point C
         Topic 1
         Topic 2

         Davis and McKay (1996, p. 60) point out that neither method
     is inherently stronger than the other. It is simply a matter of
     which design works best for your material.
         This resonates with us, from our own experience and our
     work with students, because frequently in the arts, human-
     ities and social sciences there is something of a grid between
     the material discussed and the themes that emerge from it.
     For historians, the material may be events, or social groups;
     for literature students, it may be texts; and works of art or
     schools for art historians. Susan had the experience of mak-
     ing a change half way through her thesis when she recognized
     that shifting her design 180 degrees would enable her ideas to
     come through more clearly.

       I began my doctorate assuming that the structure would
       be the same as my Master’s thesis structure. There I had a
       lengthy introduction in which I laid out the social issues I
       was investigating, the discourse I was joining, and the his-
       torical framework for my discussion of four New Zealand
       women novelists writing around the beginning of the twen-
       tieth century. Then each author had a chapter in which I
       pulled all my evidence from their novels, and I had a short
       conclusion. So for the doctorate on a medieval motif I as-
       sumed I would have one chapter for every manuscript or
       set of stories framed up with a good solid introduction and
       conclusion. I didn’t even think about structure at all.
          But about half way through I realized that the themes, so-
       cial and political issues feeding the transitive movement of
       the basic story were more interesting than the manuscripts.
                                            Ordering the Thesis      23


  These themes and issues were the reason for my thesis,
  and were what gave it life and zest. So I decided to totally
  change my thesis by making the chapter headings about the
  social and political issues and then cut up what I had written
  and put each text into the chapter’s framework which was
  a discussion of what the stories meant in social and politi-
  cal terms. For two weeks I was tense as I did a massive cut
  and paste job, ensuring that I didn’t lose the vision I had, nor
  any of the important passages of writing. The process was
  satisfying; I felt that it gave me a richer and more meaning-
  ful thesis.

   For Susan, Davis and McKay’s ‘topics’ become ‘texts’ and
their ‘points’ become ‘themes’. The original running order was
structured according to the main works under scrutiny:

  Introduction
  Chapter 1 Corcha Laidhe
  Chapter 2 Wife of Bath’s Tale
  Chapter 3 Tale of Florent
  Chapter 4 Dame Ragnelle
  Chapter 5 Ballard versions
  Chapter 6 Arthurian versions
  Chapter 7 Spenser’s Fairy Queene

The revised structure was thematic:

  Introduction
  Chapter 1 Social critical background
  Chapter 2 Meaning of spatial: forest and court
  Chapter 3 Hunter hunted and beastly bride
  Chapter 4 Meaning of sexual transformation

   The themes were the reason for putting this particular set
of texts together. However, at the outset they were not as
transparently clear to Susan as they became a few years in.
Only then could she articulate them. The texts were static; the
themes, dynamic. The logical development of the idea at the
heart of the thesis was to make the important themes more
visible in the title headings and chapter-level structure once
the diagram was pivoted. This freed the chapters to be more
24   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     concrete and work closely with the texts in building that over-
     arching argument. The thesis argument constituted the struc-
     tural framework rather than a list of primary sources.
        In our experience beginning in the most obvious way –
     working with data separately and later reconfiguring them into
     thematic chapters – may leave the thesis more productively
     open. We suspect that Susan’s experience in literature may be
     shared by others in the arts, humanities and social sciences,
     and that many thesis writers might find other pertinent substi-
     tutes for ‘themes’ and ‘points’ (or texts and themes) that make
     this model particularly useful.


     z
      Broad versus speciﬁc ﬁelds

     Most thesis writers grapple throughout the entire writing proc-
     ess with controlling the structural placement and delimitation
     of broad background material. All theses contextualize the
     original contribution within the appropriate academic frame-
     work that often includes the history of the research question
     or problem, the thought and work accomplished to date, and
     the acknowledgment of a web of theory or philosophy. Each
     thesis pulls together several contextual webs, and must link
     each to the main research question, the thesis at the heart of
     the thesis. The thesis is also a highly defensive genre. Not only
     are decisions likely to be explained and defended, but the logic
     of those decisions needs to be clearly evident.
        The work of linking background to research topic is impor-
     tant. Glatthorn (1998, pp. 186–8) supplies a list of questions
     commonly asked by examiners, which include:

     z
      Why did you choose that particular problem? Why did you
      not study this other problem instead?
     z
      What exactly were you trying to find out? I’m unclear
      about the meaning of your problem statement.
     z
      You have reviewed the important literature, but I fail to
      see what use you make of your review. Can you clarify for
      me what you learned from the review of literature?
     z
      When you reviewed the literature, why did you decide to
      review that particular area of study?
                                             Ordering the Thesis      25


z
 Why did you choose that particular method? Why did you
 not use this other method instead?
z
 Can you clarify for me how the particular method you
 chose relates directly to the problem you have chosen to
 study.
z
 Can you relate your findings to other important research
 in the field? In what specific ways do you think you have
 made a contribution?

    These challenging questions could be avoided at the oral ex-
amination by ensuring that background history, literature and
methodology are clearly linked to the research question in the
written thesis. A reader should not be left unsure of why the
study was undertaken, what its intention was, why decisions
were made and how the original contribution relates to other
studies. The ability to link one’s own work to the discipline is
essential to establish membership of what Becher and Trowl-
er call an ‘academic tribe’ (Becher and Trowler, 2001), with
the doctoral thesis as the rite of passage entry-point. Exam-
iners pay attention, then, to ensuring that the background to
the study is represented clearly and accurately. However, firm
linkage risks repetition that can become tiresome to the same
reader who will object if the linkage is not clear. A balance
needs to be maintained.
    Much of the background contextualization will be made in
the introduction, frame the discussion section, and be knitted
together in the conclusion. It is likely, though, that, as the the-
sis develops and shifts through its moves, contextualization
will need to be re-established within the chapters, perhaps
with a little more detail than in the introduction. You will need
to decide how much belongs properly in the introduction so
that the reader is very clear from the outset about the posi-
tion of the research within its field, and how much should be
kept in specific chapters. One way to make the choice is to ask
whether a linkage is tying a broad point or a detailed one to
the topic. Some will find it helpful to think diagrammatically.
If the thesis were to be drawn as an hour glass, with the broad
contextualization at the beginning and the end, and the nar-
row focus on detail in the middle, would this particular linking
point best be drawn as a narrow detail or a broad general link?
26   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     Shifting within a chapter from specific close-focus material
     back to broad general principles will feel dislocated and diso-
     rienting. If there is an unavoidable reason for this, it is helpful
     to signal why you are shifting back out to the general. Your
     argument needs to be kept clear through your steps and stages
     between specific and broad.


     z
      The literature review question

     You will need to decide where in the thesis you will show that
     you have critically reviewed the literature (for literature stu-
     dents, the term ‘literature’ means ‘secondary material’) and
     demonstrated your comprehensive understanding of it. In the
     basic science model, the literature review is given a separate
     chapter. Packaging the literature discretely enables an exam-
     iner to tick this requirement off the list more easily. It may also
     be appropriate to use the literature review to identify the gap
     that your research will occupy, the theoretical framework in
     which you work, the practical precursors which nestle around
     your original contribution.
         However, by having a separate chapter you risk detachment
     of the literature from your research. If instead you embed the
     literature in the thesis as it progresses, it will be apparent that
     you have discussed only literature which is evidently relevant
     to your original work. You also give prominence to your own
     work earlier on, subordinating work that was previous to your
     ideas and claiming the centre-stage position of the expert from
     the outset. If you use a referencing system that allows for foot-
     notes, your argument can occupy the space above the floor-
     boards for your argument with a literature review that sup-
     ports you in the footnotes below your feet. There is something
     satisfying about compressing the big names in your discipline
     to prop up your own ideas.
         Further, it may be more sophisticated to back-load the lit-
     erature in what Dunleavy calls the ‘opening out’ model. Here,
     a brief review of literature facilitates the set-up, the core of the
     thesis presents the original work, and an analysis and discus-
     sion of the literature occurs at the end of the thesis when its
     wider implications are explained (Dunleavy, 2003, pp. 59–60).
                                              Ordering the Thesis      27


Dunleavy explains how this avoids the risk of a slow and bor-
ing start rehearsing other scholars’ work, after which the origi-
nal work may seem rather less significant (p. 58). We applaud
Dunleavy’s insistence that a thesis should be interesting right
from the beginning – an ideal principle – but appreciate doc-
toral candidates’ concern that even more crucial than the need
to be engaging is the need to persuade the examiner that the
literature has been adequately reviewed.
    For most writers, some of the literature will be discussed
at the outset to establish the scope of the thesis, some will be
needed in the core chapters, and some may be most relevant
towards the end. Some of the foundational, well-known work
is likely to be presented as background to the topic; some will
be current and vital to specific aspects of the thesis. A literature
review remains contingent until the end of the thesis process.
Doctoral candidates must write while they are reading at the
start of their work, even when they are not sure of the scope of
their thesis or the importance of the material they are reading.
We cannot over-emphasize the need for a constant relation-
ship between reading and writing. Then, as ideas firm up, the
review of literature will probably need refocussing. It is quite
usual to work on the literature review towards the end of the
process when the chapters are put together in that first whole
draft.


z
 A four-way model

Some thesis guide books make use of a four-way model to
envision the generic function of the thesis. Defining these com-
ponents will not enable you to split your thesis tidily into quar-
ters that cover the moves of the quadrants, but it will give you
another conceptual model of thinking about your thesis that is
likely to help with structural decisions. Phillips and Pugh (2010,
pp. 63–7) boil down the basic functions of a thesis to four cru-
cial components:
z
 background theory;
z
 focal theory;
z
 data theory;
z
 contribution.
28   Structuring Your Research Thesis


         The literature review will provide the background theory.
     Focal theory requires you to explain with specific detail ‘pre-
     cisely what you are researching and why’ (Phillips and Pugh,
     2010, p. 65). Data theory establishes ‘the appropriateness and
     reliability of your sources,’ the identification of how you might
     do this being one of your ‘professional tasks’ (p. 66). An explic-
     it, clear description of your contribution – the original knowl-
     edge or understanding that the research produces – is the final
     component.
         You might also consider the main task of your thesis in
     terms of Dunleavy’s (2003) proposition that ‘in the humani-
     ties and social sciences there are only four fundamental ways
     of handling long, text-based explanations… These organizing
     patterns are: descriptive; analytic; argumentative; and a matrix
     pattern, combining elements of any two of the other three ap-
     proaches’ (p. 63). A descriptive thesis may ‘follow the pattern
     of a storyline set by an external work’; or work chronologically;
     or ‘replicate the pattern’ of organizations, legislation or regula-
     tions and so on (p. 66). An analytic one imposes categories on
     the found material (p. 70). An argumentative thesis evaluates
     found material (p. 71). In concluding this proposition, Dun-
     leavy notes, as we do throughout this book, that ‘there is never
     just “one best way” of organizing a long text’ and that differ-
     ent principles will tug against each other (p. 75). However, if
     you feel that your thesis really is primarily descriptive, analytic
     or argumentative, or especially if you recognize your own as
     a mix of more than one of these, you could state this in your
     methodology (or its equivalent) and overtly discuss how this
     function of your work affects structure.


     z
      Making use of methodology’s moves

     Although perhaps less so than previously, for many in the arts
     and humanities, the term ‘methodology’ is foreign to work-
     ing practice, and the idea of overtly describing ‘methods’ is
     antithetical. Two of us (Susan and Frances) did not really en-
     counter ‘methodology’ before we had completed doctorates in
     literature. In that discipline, it would have seemed flat-footed
     stylistically to baldly declare one’s plan in the thesis itself, even
                                            Ordering the Thesis      29


if it might be written elsewhere in a personal journal or diary
as a guide to action.
    Retrospectively, however, the term makes sense of work
within our theses that we simply saw as theoretical contex-
tualization. Sometimes the conventions of hard science disci-
plines are helpful for ensuring that the genre requirements of
the thesis are not only met, but are also patently demonstrated
to the examiner as having been fulfilled. Thinking about what
your methodology would look like if you were obliged to come
up with one can give focus. Tony recounts the process during
his theology doctorate:

  Around two years into the project and with a first draft of my
  thesis almost completed, my supervisor was concerned that,
  as I turned in chapter after chapter, he could find nothing
  significantly wrong with what I was doing. (With the wis-
  dom of hindsight, I think what he was intuiting was that,
  while the individual chapters worked in their own right,
  something about the whole thing was troubling him.) He
  arranged for an associate (in the field, but at another univer-
  sity) to read the whole of my first draft, and then the three of
  us met together.
     The advice was that the thesis was interesting, well writ-
  ten and up to the standard of scholarship and originality that
  would be expected. His one main criticism was that the ma-
  jor moves in my thesis appeared to happen in a somewhat
  ad hoc manner. What he most missed was something like
  a ‘methodology’ chapter near the beginning of my thesis,
  outlining how I was going to go about responding to my
  research question, and why I would do it in these particular
  ways.
     I knew the moment he said this that he was exactly right.
  No further explanations were necessary. I went away and
  wrote a methodology chapter which greatly helped clarify
  what I had done, and why. Almost inevitably, this required
  some re-ordering of my material, some was able to be
  dumped & a little bit more needed to be added in places,
  so that I actually delivered in the main body of my research
  what I had promised in the introduction and methodology.
30   Structuring Your Research Thesis


          The other, somewhat broader, criticism was that he felt
       I needed to background the material of others rather more,
       and foreground my own ideas. This, he said, was a ‘confi-
       dence thing’. And I found that doing the major revision to
       my thesis (outlined above) hugely boosted my confidence in
       what I was trying to achieve and how I would go about it.
       With, now, a very strong sense of what the real thesis issue
       was, the insights I had come up with, and the methodology
       I had employed to connect these two, I was able more easily
       to let go of the huge comfort blanket of the ideas of others
       and place my own ideas more centre-stage.

        Tony found that the term ‘methodology’ prompted him to
     spell out overtly what he was doing in his thesis in the descrip-
     tion of its structure. Once he attempted the task, he was able to
     see what needed shifting around because this was brought to
     the surface in his articulation. By thinking of how to describe
     the ‘methodology’ by which his own insights connected to ‘the
     background material of others’ and ‘the real thesis issue’, Tony
     probably added a clarity and sense of focus and purpose to
     what was a fairly complex, multidimensional thesis.
        It might seem strange that one word from a different dis-
     cipline triggered the solution to the problem of what was not
     quite working, In fact, it is common for some particular shift in
     perspective, or lens, to allow insight into solving thesis prob-
     lems. Although the guide-book approach of offering practical
     advice has been challenged for its apparent failure to recog-
     nize the social complexities of the act of writing in an excel-
     lent book on doctoral writing (Kamler and Thomson, 2006),
     we have worked in this volume on the assumption that some
     seemingly straightforward strategies prompt a change of lens
     or perspective to enable movement forward. We acknowledge
     that writing is a complex social act, requiring multiple evalu-
     ative criteria to be met, and entailing the deeply personal and
     thus potentially emotionally challenging construction of identity
     and negotiation of deeply meaningful values. One response to
     the challenges is to consider a series of different approaches in
     the expectation that somewhere amongst them you may find a
     way to meet all those criteria and feel that the thesis you submit
     is a fair representation of your data, your field and yourself.
                                             Ordering the Thesis     31


   Another of the fairly practical-seeming parts of the thesis
which can do a surprising amount of deep-level work is the
contents page. Considering how yours will look should be
done as an exercise in thinking about how you will present
the argument and the story-line of your research with as much
clarity and depth as possible.


z
 The contents page and its implications

The contents page lists what is to come in the thesis body, so
it is primarily a navigational device. However, it also plots the
design of the thesis and enables the reader’s cognitive work
to begin. A good contents page shows immediately what is
important and how the bigger thesis is built from smaller ar-
guments. The relationship between parts and whole is visible
and, ideally, persuasive. Contents pages that work well are a
pleasure to happen upon.
    The language of headings will often signal the epistemology.
In our teaching samples, Leonelle Wallace begins her cultural
studies thesis (1996) in a fairly standard style with ‘Introduc-
tion: South Pacific’, but her second chapter signals wit, linkage
between theory and practice, and the inclusion of popular dia-
lect with ‘Too Darn Hot: Sexual Encounter in Hawaii on Cook’s
third voyage’. The socially predicated word play of the sec-
ond chapter title suggests that maybe the seemingly innocent
and strictly geographical ‘South Pacific’ of the first chapter has
shades of Rodgers and Hammerstein’s 1949 musical, in which
the geographical setting is heavy-handedly laden with naive,
but nonetheless erotic, desire.
    Although software will build your contents page for you
when you have finished writing, we suggest that you keep a
draft of what it might look like as a work-in-progress document
that will help you see the development of your argument more
clearly. Such a document is an anchor-stone that holds you on
track when you become engrossed with detail along the way. A
comparison of the contents pages of recent theses in your own
discipline will probably give a range of options, from the single
heading option of Chapter One, Chapter Two, to the triple- or
even quadruple-levelled model, often given numbers: I.iii.a.1.
32   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     Dunleavy always recommends using two levels only for fear
     of creating a confusing ‘fruit cocktail’ effect, where the parts
     become indistinguishable (Dunleavy, 2003, p. 70). His advice
     points to a sound middle path. There is room, however, for
     individual preference. Any of the contents pages that you find
     in finished theses must be regarded as ‘successful’, but you are
     likely to find that some are more persuasive than others, or
     look more suitable for your own thesis.
         The advantages of simplicity are that a single-tiered system
     may suffice, and will be easy to build, uncluttered and self-
     assured. Furthermore, when a thesis is exegetical – building
     its ideas through the writing process itself – it may be impor-
     tant to the integrity of the enquiry that openness at the outset
     avoids a prescriptive approach. A single-tier approach enables
     such openness of enquiry: you are not committed by a pre-
     designed overview to take the enquiry in any one direction and
     instead you can be steered by the data themselves. However,
     a single tier of titling may look a little raw, and fail to take full
     advantage of the opportunity that greater complexity can re-
     veal immediately to the reader regarding the thesis’ sophistica-
     tion and depth. A single-tier contents page does not give away
     much about what will be in the thesis. This model is the default
     option – the plain brown wrapping paper approach to the look
     of your thesis from the outside.
         The advantages of complexity are that you may be able to
     think through the process of constructing the multiple tiers of
     the contents page and, thereby, get clarity for your ideas as
     to how they properly fit together, and which ones are more
     important than others. At one level, liberal subtitling is sim-
     ply a courtesy to the reader, enabling them to find what inter-
     ests them quickly. More importantly, though, subtitles give you
     handles on the progression of your material throughout each
     chapter, and make revision a little easier because the layout
     is more evident. Subtitles force you as a writer to ensure that
     each section is appropriately confined to the topic of the sub-
     title. In the final stages before submission you could consider
     whether your readers need all the subtitles that you have used
     as writing tools, and remove any that seem too low-level. A
     plan entails thinking through the larger argument and, with
     this work done, the task of filling in the material underneath
                                            Ordering the Thesis     33


each heading and subheading becomes relatively straightfor-
ward. Attention to detail ensures that you give yourself a plan
and thus a map to follow.
   Significantly, the system of subtitling in tiers implies hier-
archy. The more complex your design, the more difficult it is
to maintain tight control of the hierarchical semiotics of your
subtitling. You risk shutting down your options before you
have done all of the thinking and writing that might have pro-
duced a richer outcome than the initial contents page plan
allowed. You must also take responsibility for establishing a
more elaborate system and maintaining it with accuracy. This
requires more care and time, and in the end may look clut-
tered, laboured and uninviting.
   One workable strategy is to begin with a single-level system
and develop it further once the content has fallen into place,
keeping an open mind to the possibility of revision. At the be-
ginning of the thesis process, producing a draft of a contents
page may be well down the list of things to do. A working draft
gives you another way to think about the overall structure of
your thesis, however, so that structure – the bones of the thesis
compared to the flesh of content – can be developed simulta-
neously with reading and data gathering.
   Compare theses that are available electronically in your dis-
cipline to see what the contents pages look like. First look for
what is practical: how many chapters there are, whether or
not they are of similar lengths and, if not, whether there is a
common pattern amongst the theses you check. For example,
does the introduction tend to be longer or shorter than the oth-
er chapters? Then look for how much the contents page tells
about the content. How many layers of subtitling does each
have? Do the headings make use of metaphor? How dynam-
ic and explicit are the headings? For example, an introduc-
tion could be called ‘Introduction’ (which conveys no specific
meaning at all); ‘Introduction: Background to Education in Hu-
man Geography’ (which conveys the broad context); or ‘Educa-
tion in Human Geography: A Social Constructivist Perspective’
(which signals the broad context and the author’s theoretical
position). An examiner is unlikely to criticize a bland contents
page that does not convey the argument or story of your thesis
through careful use of language. Ideally, you should strike a
34   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     balance between something that is so colourful it looks unlike
     a thesis and something that is empty of meaning, so choose
     the subtitle levelling and language that best carries the impor-
     tant cognitive drive of your thesis. A reader will subsequently
     benefit by being able to see from the contents page what the
     thesis does theoretically and methodologically. The contents
     page becomes an inviting entry into the thesis.


     z
      Two basic approaches: write ﬁrst;
      plan ﬁrst

     This section is a reminder that structuring usually entails a
     mixture of planning and writing into the topic. Some thesis
     writers will be able to draft a contents page, work downwards
     to fill in more subheadings, and finally complete the thesis by
     fitting their material in between the subheadings. For other
     students, the processes of thinking and writing are interwo-
     ven to the extent that they are virtually the same. Rountree
     and Laing (1996) suggest that there are two basic approaches
     to structure. The first is to write first and then highlight the
     themes that emerge; the second is to get an overall sense of
     the thesis topic through reading and consideration of data, and
     write a chapter outline before starting the writing (Rountree
     and Laing, 1996, pp. 142–4). In part, the approach you use will
     depend on your discipline and topic, but it probably depends
     too on your own preferences, your comfort or discomfort with
     chaos, your eagerness to get going or your desire to wait till
     you have a good road map. As authors, the three of us found
     we varied strikingly – but managed to avoid blows – in our
     personal comfort with planning firmly and fixedly or allowing
     prose to luxuriate wildly. We also find in our sessions on struc-
     ture that there are usually students who are adamant that only
     one of these methods is viable. Yet both methods work well in
     different circumstances. If you are ever blocked with writing, it
     can help to move up to the meta-level of planning.
         We speculate that the first, rather slower method of working
     (write first and find the themes), is often the only approach for
     many students writing exegetical theses. Parry identifies that
     this is especially the case for humanities students:
                                               Ordering the Thesis      35


  In the beginning, and sometimes into the middle stages of
  candidature, humanities students report that … the prime
  concern is to achieve the necessary degree of focus and to
  develop confidence that the research is headed in the right
  direction. Here, the stages of starting out and creative devel-
  opment have to take place in tandem because the architec-
  ture of the thesis is conceptually constructed … from the top
  down. (Parry, 2007, p. 77)

   When a thesis is exegetical, how you say things matters very
much, and the values inherent in the thesis are constructed
through the writing. It would be unduly restrictive to begin with
a contents page plan and write into it. We suggest keeping one
open as a work in progress that you review regularly and have
on hand to discuss with your supervisor, but this may not be
anything more binding than a different lens onto your project
and a place to develop the lexicon of your headings.
   A chapter outline can be a challenge to produce. Some fur-
ther student thoughts from our survey data on what is difficult
about thesis structure were:

z
 fitting my thesis into a scientific structure when it was
 exploratory/qualitative;
z
 being logical;
z
 being too close to the material;
z
 piecing together the material as some is chronological
 and some thematic;
z
 volume, variety, consistency.

   If you write first, you then have the fairly large task of identi-
fying the crucial themes, setting aside what cannot be regard-
ed as central to your thesis (even if it is fascinating, important
and valuable) and then finalizing the contents page structure.
If you prefer the method of an early outline, you face these
challenges at an earlier stage in the process. Even if the con-
tents page must remain hypothetical until most of the thinking
and writing is done, efforts to get your head around the project
as a whole are generally helpful for enabling writing.
   You could consider also the way that people did this work
before the benefit of on-screen documents, when writing
36   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     material was expensive. It is not a new practice for scholars
     to need to get their heads around larger projects than can be
     comfortably carried by natural memory. If you feel it is helpful
     to develop a mental overview, make use of mnemonic theory
     from past ages. We suggest that the underpinning principles
     behind memory techniques – make links between things, use
     vivid imagery that conjures up associated but perhaps mun-
     dane facts – are also worth keeping in mind with the writing
     process.


     z
      Mnemonic theory: the architecture
      of the mind

     Mnemonic theory has classical roots and was developed in the
     context of religiously sponsored education in the Middle Ages.
     On one hand, mnemonic theory provides a set of exercises to
     practise in order to develop the memory beyond its inherent
     capacity; on the other, memory development was considered
     spiritual in a time when education was under the auspices of
     the church. Your soul was refined as you expanded the mate-
     rial that you were able to internalize and retain. Yet even for
     the most secular-minded, classical and medieval ideas about
     self-construction are applicable to thesis writers who need to
     declare a subjective position.
        The term ‘soul’ can be translated to ‘sense of identity’, with
     all of the axiological complexity this implies, in the terminol-
     ogy of academic criticism (Carter, 2009). Perhaps the most
     helpful aspect of mnemonic theory is that cognitive retrieval
     is theorized as vitally important to the inherent identity of the
     individual. You are the sum of the material that you can con-
     trol mentally. Thankfully, in the twenty-first century, we do not
     have to commit large quantities of material to memory, but we
     should be aware that structuring a thesis is partly about the
     construction of identity: it matters. Three useful pointers to the
     thesis writer emerge from mnemonics: the use of vivid, con-
     crete images to conceptualize the abstract; the use of mental
     architecture to conceive of structure; and, most importantly,
     recognition that the cognitive structuring process is ontologi-
     cally significant (Carter, 2009).
                                             Ordering the Thesis     37


    There is a concrete spatial aspect to the memory techniques.
Cicero in De Oratore (55 BC) cites Simonides (c. 556–468 BC)
as the first to theorize on memory (and he is also the first re-
corded professional poet). Simonides was employed to poeti-
cally praise a wealthy client at a dinner party, but fell out with
his mean-spirited patron and was subsequently called outside.
As a result, he escaped an earthquake that killed all the dinner
guests, rendering them unrecognizable. Simonides was called
in to identify as many of the bodies as he could, and found he
could remember them by envisioning again the dinner table of
sociable faces and seeking those who sat next to the ones he
could remember clearly. Following this experience, he theo-
rized that, in order to remember more than you might naturally,
you should mentally construct a specific architectural place in
which things to be remembered could be tucked away in se-
quence, connected one to the next so that they might be re-
trieved (Yates, 1966, p. 17). Vivid images with some association
with the idea to be remembered were then inserted at transi-
tion spaces in the building: the corners, doorways and stairs.
    At a practical level, the place and image model of early mne-
monics offers the architectural metaphor of a building with its
entrance way, its progression through rooms and corridors
and its signposts that direct. Many theses use an apt epigram-
matic quotation at the start of each chapter which performs
the job of a mnemonic image, possibly memorable – a small
gem that stands out from the background. The individuation
that James C. Lockhart (1997) achieves with epigrams at the
start of each chapter contributes to the sense of his confident
authorial control. His opening thesis chapter, ‘Motivation, Re-
search Approach, and Problem Statement’, comes under the
auspices of Oscar Wilde’s: ‘It is a pure unadulterated country
life. They get up early because they have so much to do and
they go to bed early because they have so little to think about’
(Lockhart, 1997, p. 1). This chapter opens with a consideration
of land-based industries as economic entities, but the quota-
tion obliquely ties economics to the rural versus urban and lo-
cal versus international dichotomies that underpin his topic. In
this PhD in international business, the topic is greatly enriched
by his wide-ranging epigrams (the rock group Pink Floyd also
make an appearance: the well-known exhortation to eat your
38   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     meat if you want your pudding), because they make cultural
     connections and additionally establish the author’s wit and
     expansive possession of how business is enmeshed in social
     behaviour and cultural values.
        The mnemonic model has implications for style. As with ar-
     chitecture, form must follow function, but it may also develop
     its own unique artistry. The vivid images that mark transition
     could help to establish the style, conveying cultural and value-
     laden connections. Although in the linear construction of the
     written thesis the tour of the imaginary building can be taken
     in only one direction, the introductory material of the thesis
     might explain other possible connections between ‘rooms’. To
     sum up, a spatial conceptualization may show how the parts
     are fitted together to produce a whole that meets the multiple
     requirements of thesis genre, discipline convention and the es-
     tablishment of the academic identity that you want to inhabit.


     z
      Mapping thematically

     In Chapter 3, we discuss both metaphor and narrative when
     they are deliberately exploited over the wider thesis for their
     potential as structural devices. Underpinning both usages
     are the themes that are important to your research. Here we
     consider some thematic models for organizing your content
     within the bookends of the introduction and conclusion. It is
     likely that to some extent your literature review and possibly
     description of data collection will be chronological, working
     from the beginning through time to the most recent point. A
     logical sense of accumulative force is achieved by ordering
     material from the least to the most important, which may have
     a sense of working from the external to the internal core. Many
     studies apply theory to practice and then cycle back to theory
     again. Old patterns are applied to new material. The general
     may be used to investigate the specific; previous international
     study applied to the local. There are many other options, and
     the ones you choose may be adapted. If you decide that your
     structure should be organized so that the themes of the thesis
     govern the systems by which it coheres, one of these may be
     suitable for your research.
                                            Ordering the Thesis     39


Chronological

The straightforward earliest-to-most-recent ordering has the
advantage of simplicity, and is particularly suitable to theses
where progression is being studied. It is reasonably likely that
even if you have a more complex organization you will work
chronologically within some subsections of your work. How-
ever, if your thesis content logically fits into an uncomplicated
time line, this gives you the equipment to use time as the link-
ing motif. Such linkage will, of course, merely underpin the
development of your argument and analyses of what events
mean. Davis and McKay observe that: ‘The shift from narrat-
ing when events occur to arguing that when they occur they
produce certain changes is crucial to developing an effective
form of analytical writing’ (Davis and McKay, 1996, p. 78).
They argue that the chronological becomes more meaningful
when it is represented as causal: linking the argument devel-
opment to the time progression is likely to enable the argu-
ment to progress logically within a framework constructed of
time words.


Least to most important

A sound way to construct an argument is to put forward
the second-to-strongest point first, and then steadily work
through from weakest to strongest. The advantages of this
model is that you interest your audience with something that
is reasonably convincing, and then you roll back to the least
convincing point, leaving yourself the advantage of gathering
momentum as you go. You also finish on the strongest point
at your disposal, a powerful rhetorical strategy. For some, in-
stead of generally working chronologically within each sec-
tion, it is more effective to build an argument based on the
strength of each point, and to maintain the sense of momen-
tum forward by working broadly according to this second-to-
strongest, then weakest-to-strongest formula. Cohesion can
be gained by assuming the linkage of a persuasive dialogic
argument.
40   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     External to internal

     This is a version of least-to-most-important that has a spatial
     component and a symbolic one. Often, for different reasons, the
     external is less important than the core. In medieval religious
     writing, the body is the earthen vessel of the soul; in biological
     terms it is the internal seed that carries the futurity of the plant.
     The image of the rose was one that conveyed a sense of each
     petal following the pattern of the one on its outside, but more
     perfectly, right through to the tightly curled middle petals at the
     centre. Philosophically there is a satisfying cultural component
     to this model, which may allow you to build your content into
     an envisioned shape that embodies its values. Cohesion is at-
     tained through the matching of shape to meaning.


     Theory to practice

     Many theses begin by establishing theory in the literature
     review, and apply it to their own case studies, sometimes re-
     turning to modify or refine the theory. Grounded theory, in
     particular, cycles round its processes. In such cases it may be
     necessary to consider which is most important to the author
     – the practical application or the development of theory – and
     to structure accordingly. Often by applying a particular model,
     such as grounded theory, it is possible to follow specific guide-
     lines that give some direction over the broad outline of the
     thesis.


     Old pattern to new material

     A thesis may use a model of enquiry found in previous work
     and apply it to a new sphere. For example, where a study has
     found data by surveying a set of participants in one particu-
     lar location, the same methods might be used to investigate
     participants in a different place. Sometimes, too, the literature
     yields possibilities for parts of the data gathering to follow pre-
     vious models. If you happen to find that this is the case, notice
     how the model thesis was structured while you are considering
     how they conducted the research.
                                               Ordering the Thesis       41


General to speciﬁc

Literature may show common trends that your thesis investi-
gates in a specific previously unresearched environment. This
is the ‘macro to micro’ model, whereby a small and specific
sample is examined to see if what is happening generally ap-
plies to this environment or group. It may be that small differ-
ences from the general emerge as being the most important
features of the area of research studies. In such a case, struc-
ture could make use of difference as the organizing principle,
working from similarity to difference to put emphasis on the
difference found in this study.

Thesis as an hour glass

To some extent, the pattern of general to specific applies to
most theses in which the introductory material will survey the
literature in order to identify the gap that the thesis will fill. The
hour glass is a diagrammatic image of this process: most the-
ses begin broadly as they establish the context of their research
question, problem or hypotheses, narrow to their specific topic
and work at a close level through the different components be-
fore broadening again to contextualize their work within the
general field that began the discussion. Critically, once the top-
ic has been focussed down, care should be taken not to spread
out to the general again or, if this is necessary, to explain to the
reader why the vista has been spread open again.

International to local

A variant is the application of a study founded in international
literature that is applied to the local. This is particularly com-
mon in New Zealand, where we work, a small country about
as far away from almost anywhere else as it is possible to be,
whose post-colonial settler identity is constructed around a
sense of exile. Research that brings the local into the inter-
national discussion steps away from the cultural cringe of
parochialism to demand equal significance. We suspect that
doctoral candidates from other smaller countries may also be
more acutely aware of the staking out of national identity in-
volved in applying an international model locally.
42   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     z
      Ordering the thesis: suggestions for action

     First make a mind-map of your thesis by spreading out
     a good-sized sheet of paper and, beginning at the cen-
     tre with the central idea, spreading out from there to at-
     tach related ideas. Then draw a geometrical model, which
     might be a triangle, rectangle, or labelled grid, and should
     include ideas/themes/arguments as well as nouns. Recon-
     figure this a few times if you are not fully satisfied with your
     first effort. Keep the model(s) aside for future reference.
     Put the model that you most favour against the basic struc-
     ture model. Where in your thesis will be you make each of the
     moves of the basic science model? Which items in the basic
     model are most important for your work? You could use a red
     pen to overwrite the terms of the basic model that are relevant
     to your diagram, changing the diagram again if this process
     enables you to see discrepancies and possibilities.
         Possibly with your model beside you, overlaid by your
     thoughts about the functions of the thesis that the basic model
     provides, begin a draft of a contents page. Look at several re-
     cent theses in your own discipline for the options of contents
     formatting. Develop your own contents page as far as is rea-
     sonable and set aside to review in a few months’ time. Keep
     this document alive over the thesis process by reviewing it
     regularly and changing as your ideas develop. It is something
     you could show your supervisor to launch a discussion on the
     development of your ideas.
         Move between writing and planning throughout the thesis
     process. If one becomes difficult, step into the other mode of
     working. Stay aware of which parts of your writing are broad
     and general – and, therefore, introductory – and which are spe-
     cific. Imagine your thesis as a building and consider how the
     ideas fit together. Think thematically of how your thesis could
     develop.


     z
      Readerly needs

     Some researchers have investigated examiners’ comments
     and questions. Trafford and Leshem (2002) suggest that,
                                            Ordering the Thesis     43


rather than being accepted for your findings, you are passed
because of your conceptualization of what they mean, and it is
your explanation of the process that matters. Johnston (1997,
pp. 340–1) reports on positive comments reflecting examiners’
attention to structure, such as ‘an important study, carefully
and thoroughly designed’, ‘carefully conceptualised’ and ‘the
first chapter provided an advanced organiser for the reader’.
Mullins and Kiley (2002, p. 377) found from interviews with
30 examiners that they were aware that the basic science mod-
el of structure was not always the most appropriate choice, but
none commented on examining anything that differed radi-
cally from it.
    You need to consider your reader before you submit. Ask
yourself what questions would spring to your own mind if you
read a single sentence or two describing your thesis topic. If
you were to list what you would need to know to be convinced
by such a thesis, or would want to know to establish whether
or not the research was of interest to you, in what order would
you need the information? What would you expect to be told
in the first few pages? If the topic obviously has several dimen-
sions in need of some explanation (as in a thesis that examines
three different cultures and compares their response to an eco-
nomic trend), which dimension seems the most foundational
to the entire idea? And then what next?
    A reader is likely to have some understanding of the back-
ground to your thesis topic, but may not have any knowledge
at all about some of the details. If you make some interdiscipli-
nary connections, you need to cater for readers from both dis-
ciplines, expecting that they will not have a grasp of the other
discipline. You will use structure to build a framework to fit
your ideas together accessibly for people with a limited under-
standing of your material, of your theory, of the epistemology
behind your methods and of the values that drive the project.
    If you feel that there are a couple of options for the order
of your material, talk through the benefits and disadvantages
of the options, preferably with your supervisor. You may find
that this enables you to see more clearly which one is slightly
preferable. Then write down your explanation so that it could
be included in your introduction as part of the defensive work
of the thesis.
2 Emphasis and
  Proportion



Structuring also results in emphasis. It is common for thesis
writers to grow less sure of their structuring choices as they un-
derstand their data better because they understand the topic’s
complexity more deeply. They may also feel increasingly com-
mitted to the possibly-unexpected significance of what they
are finding. Ideas are likely to be entangled like rhizomes, and
the implications of their tangle may be meaningful. Carter
and Blumenstein (2011), who established a startling negative
co-relationship between confidence about structure and time
spent on doctorate, conclude that perhaps this is a symptom of
increased expertise. The study of 92 students found that about
half of the students who gave reasons for changing structure
did so because of a shift of focus or emphasis (Carter and Blu-
menstein, 2011). So you also find yourself feeling less secure
about structure the nearer you are to completion; accept that
this may be a sign of increased expertise.
   At the same time, look at the deeper levels of significance
to fine tune and finally choose your structure. If you have ex-
perimented with modelling your thesis as a diagram, you are
likely to have uncovered various different theses that you
might write. Deciding which of your potential topics should
be central and which should be peripheral (and maybe those
that really ought not to be in the final thesis) involves decision-
making about emphasis.
   Perfectionists should not let increased understanding act as
an obstacle to writing. Some moments of indecision are quite
necessary to good writing. When you have successfully com-
pleted your thesis and advance towards publication, you are
likely to get another opportunity to place emphasis differently,
and to produce articles from some of the material that does
not survive in your finished thesis. You are becoming an expert

                               44
                                      Emphasis and Proportion       45


on your topic and probably in your field too: you might roam
further in this field once you have gone through the process
of turning some of the material into a good thesis. Thus, the
limitations you face in this task do not apply beyond the exami-
nation: any of the material that you exclude from your thesis is
sitting fallow and fertile for the future.
   The task remains as to how much thesis space should be
given to each topic or idea. Readers expect that if something
is given more space, it is more significant than material that is
given less space. The emphasis given by quantity – more equals
more important – is one of the tacit conventions of academic
writing. What goes in or out will determine what the thesis
actually is; the proportions of included material should secure
the development of the argument if the ratio of word count is
approximately the same as the ratio of importance. Even if you
declare something to be of central importance, if you give it
considerably less space than some of the other material, read-
ers will have difficulty feeling that it truly is important.


z
 Quantity ratios

Doctoral theses are commonly 70,000 to 100,000 words in
length (with notable exceptions in some disciplines, such as
mathematics, where they are generally much shorter). Overall
size defines the scope of the topic: the envisioned project often
needs to be down-sized once the reality of the word-count
limit is matched against the initial vision. Academic writing is
not weighed out and evaluated quantitatively, like a ream of
paper or a sack of rice. Examiners will want to see that your
thesis is about the right size, not too large and not too small,
but they judge it on quality rather than quantity. Nonetheless,
as you plan the thesis structure, reassessing the ideas in terms
of how many words would probably be needed for each stage
of the thesis gives another way of evaluating the ideas them-
selves and guiding your reader to their worthiness.
   Size is defined by thesis genre. If you cannot fit your plan
into that word limit, you will need to look critically again at
what the thesis actually is, and cut it down to size. Around
80,000 words is a good size for a thesis. With more theses
46   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     coming through and requiring examination, there is generally
     less tolerance for an oversized thesis: examiners simply lack
     the time and stamina to remain fully engaged with a thesis
     that exceeds the conventional word limit too greatly unless it
     is spectacularly compelling. Although we acknowledge that it
     is often not possible, it helps if you can reach this word limit
     by a straightforward route. Considering size in terms of em-
     phasis throughout the process may help you to find that route
     while, more importantly, keeping yourself focussed on what
     aspects of the work make your most significant contribution to
     new knowledge or understanding. The proportion of sections
     matters then, not only because it shows to your examiner that
     you are aware of the thesis genre’s moves but because it also
     signals emphasis.
        It is common to assume that, besides the introduction and
     conclusion, chapters will be approximately the same length.
     Dunleavy is adamant that all chapters should be of equal size,
     recommending between 8,000 and 10,000 words, so that there
     should be about eight chapters, with five of these dealing with
     the core of the thesis, two acting as the lead-in framework and
     one as a conclusion (Dunleavy, 2003, pp. 46–52). He considers
     the option of having variations, such as fifteen chapters and
     a thesis with three main parts, ‘where each part is a set of
     connected chapters’ (p. 48), but rejects this option as likely to
     cause each chapter to be too fragmented and thin. However,
     in our survey we looked at examples of successful theses and
     noted that there were variations. Dunleavy’s advice offers a
     good basic model that is likely to suit many doctoral candi-
     dates, but there are other shapes that may be tailor-made to
     individual theses so that the structure is compatible with the
     thesis topic.
        Dunleavy (2003) has found that ‘a recurring problem in
     most humanities and social science disciplines is that students
     spend so much time and effort on writing lead-in materials
     that they create a long, dull, low value sequence of chapters
     before readers come across anything original’ (p. 51). He sug-
     gests setting a maximum length for the introductory material
     to avoid a sluggish start. A key thing to avoid is being ‘dull’; an
     introduction should be stylish and engage appropriately with
     theory (something that requires considerable work). It is thus a
                                       Emphasis and Proportion        47


place that benefits from revision and editing. It should be clear
and inviting. In fact, the setting out of the project is usually as
interesting as the finer detail of the core sections, because the
introduction establishes why the research matters. In the proc-
ess of establishing the context, the introduction usually closes
with a brief overview of how the thesis is structured. This is
akin to a road map which will be embellished with signpost-
ings throughout the thesis.
    The introduction might be where you explain the decision-
making logic behind your structure if structure has been dif-
ficult in this thesis. In the sciences, it is common to advise stu-
dents that if there were problems in the empirical research,
they should be discussed rather than masked. For all disci-
plines, this principle of explicitly discussing challenges applies
equally to problems with the writing, in keeping with the thesis
genre’s defensive characteristic. Examiners are likely to be sat-
isfied with an unconventional thesis structure if the choice is
explained or theorized by the candidate. Writing a section in
which you explain the deepest level of meaning behind your
choices and articulating this clearly is of enormous benefit to
readers if your structure is unusual.
    Another under-discussed feature of structure is that it can
be deliberately used to assist the reader with the difficult cog-
nitive task of coming to understand your research and its find-
ings by a few hours’ reading rather than by living it for three
to four years. Parallelism is a sturdy structural principle, a
good default position. To use Davis and McKay’s (1996) model
(explained in Chapter 1), if you have three topics that you are
comparing under points, it helps if they are always in the order
of A, then B, and then C and more or less of the same length.
Again, Dunleavy (2003) is fairly insistent that sections of the
thesis should be consistently the same size and proportion.
    Yet rules can be broken when the topic suggests that they
ought to be. Should it sometimes be necessary to vary order
or size ratio, it is likely to help your reader if you explain why
in the introduction to that chapter: ‘In this chapter issue X is
discussed first and in greater depth because…’. Readers accept
quite unusual structures and, indeed, welcome the refreshingly
innovative when the logic of difference is patently clear, which
often means, overtly explained.
48   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     z
      Levels of depth and voice

     Perhaps the most difficult theses to structure are those that have
     layers of different voices and depths. An example of grappling
     with complex structural options can be found in the evolution-
     ary process of Jan White’s thesis (2007), which argues that the
     late abstract paintings of New Zealand artist Colin McCahon
     were not simply landscapes that promoted national identity,
     but were in fact religiously encoded using typological semi-
     otics. Previous art historians have felt that McCahon moved
     from his earlier religious themes to landscape paintings that
     were about national identity, but White shows that the abstract
     paintings follow his early themes of intercession, mercy and
     absolution, composed in local settings to imply their relevance
     to contemporary life in the antipodes and in contemporary
     semi-abstract style.
         Because the typological system has continued through the
     millennia in the Western tradition, White needed to construct
     her argument through several chronological periods. She had
     clear evidence that McCahon knew about typology (the well-
     thumbed Ruskin in his library and the friends he went to the
     pub with regularly who wrote on or used typology); that he was
     a committed Roman Catholic (his letters, his earlier works and
     late church commissions); and that he engaged with art theo-
     ry energetically (letters, interviews). This layer concerned his
     professional life (1930s–1980s). White showed how the theory
     articulated by both artists and church theologians worked, us-
     ing examples of paintings from the medieval and Renaissance
     periods. These used typological symbolism in motifs, colours
     and shapes. The historical layer therefore spanned medieval,
     Renaissance, Counter-Reformation and Modern periods, but
     had two separate strands: typological theory and the examples
     of how this theory was applied to painting in Western arts and
     literature. White demonstrated, for instance, how the Renais-
     sance artists and thinkers looked back to Classical Greece and
     Rome and merged Platonic ideals into religious ideals. This
     was picked up later by the Romantics of the late eighteenth/
     early nineteenth centuries who continued to use typology to
     convey their culturally-defined spiritual beliefs. They, too, used
     Classical motifs to reinvent the moral and ethical ideals that
                                       Emphasis and Proportion       49


were key to the Western cultural paradigm. Later again, the
English Victorian Pre-Raphaelites reinvented this tradition us-
ing relevant romantic myths with which to discuss traditional
Christian morals, ethics and beliefs. This tradition was a criti-
cal influence on art in the United States and New Zealand dur-
ing the Modern period.
    White then examined McCahon’s international contemporar-
ies to argue that their abstraction was different from his when
their religious beliefs were different. Finally, she analyzed sev-
eral of McCahon’s later abstract paintings to show that he used
typology as theorized by early authors, summarized by Ruskin
(and his contemporaries such as Thomas Carlyle and William
Wordsworth), and discussed by many of McCahon’s friends
and contemporaries, including those in the United States and
New Zealand, and clearly demonstrated by early paintings that
impressed McCahon. Throughout the thesis White had to dis-
tinguish her argument from those of the theorists or art histo-
rians whose points made up her thesis. Structuring this thesis
was difficult; whether she worked chronologically or themati-
cally, there always seemed to be a compelling reason for doing
it the other way.
    Through the long process of finding a workable structure,
White and her supervisor recognized that several of the ration-
ales for structure were in competition with each other. First,
chronological expectations suggested starting with the earli-
er material and working forward in time. Secondly, because
McCahon was central to the topic, as reflected in the title, a
discussion of his life should launch the thesis. Thirdly, because
the argument was that it was religion, not nationalism, under-
pinning the mature period of his work, these topics, both with
their own theory and discourses, should go first to frame the
thesis. Fourthly, the discipline of art history suggested that the
artworks that were to be compared to show the connections
ought to be first, and central. What finally brought the thesis
to closure was cutting back on the breadth of this fascinat-
ing topic and eliminating some of the comparisons with earlier
use of typology and with modern contemporaries so that one
thesis clearly emerged. Most importantly, the story of the thesis
process, including the challenges of structure, was clearly ar-
ticulated by White at the outset. The interconnections between
50   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     the chapters were explained. White’s examiners commented
     very favourably on her final structure, which had plagued her
     throughout the writing process.
        If you recognize in White’s story some aspect of your own
     thesis, itemize the relevant levels of depth and voice. Do you
     need all of them, or might you get a more un-contestable thesis
     argument from a narrower depth of field, with the option of
     future publications examining the levels that you discard from
     your doctorate? You probably ought to write a description of
     your structuring choices and see if your supervisor agrees that
     it would strengthen the defensive work of the introduction.


     z
      Grammatical emphasis

     The English language has its covert conventions, many of
     which you are likely to follow without having thought about
     them. We will run through a few that affect structure, since the
     principles of grammar, which have the effect of priming the
     reader to interpret content, make a good model for the way that
     the syntax of structure contributes to overall interpretation.
        The first and last places at every level of writing are the most
     significant. In a simple English sentence, usually the subject of
     the sentence comes first: ‘I am going for lunch’ and ‘The dog
     has eaten my sandwich’ are examples where ‘I’ and ‘dog’ are
     the subject. This practice fosters expectation that the front end
     contains important information. The moment I say ‘the dog’
     I have established the agent of my sentence – the subject of the
     sentence grammatically but also in terms of what it is about.
     The final place is perhaps important simply because it is the
     last heard, so is remembered. Joseph M. Williams (1997) notes
     that, as well as the beginning, ‘another important “position” in
     the psychological geography of a sentence is very close to its
     end’ (p. 146), drawing attention to the final stresses of languag-
     es. ‘Readers assign special emphasis to the words they hear in
     their “mind’s ear” under this final stress, and what they hear
     emphasized, they take to be rhetorically significant’ (p. 147).
     Williams puts forward a formula for sentence structure that
     ‘simplicity goes first, complexity … goes last’ (Williams, 1997,
                                       Emphasis and Proportion       51


p. 140). His examples show that a sentence with a simple sub-
ject followed by a longer, more complex predicate is easier to
read than when the subject is long and complex and the simple
point concludes the sentence. We suggest that this principle
also helps at paragraph level, when the clear topic sentence
that opens the idea of the paragraph is relatively short and
simple. The evidence, examples and justification that follow
can then be more complex in terms of sentence structure and
the reader, assured by the clear signpost, is likely to be able
to cope with turning them into understanding in their own
mind.
    At the paragraph level of clear fluent writing, the topic sen-
tence is usually the first one and the final sentence gives a
summation of the paragraph and a bridge to the next idea.
Both these sentences are key places for conveying the author’s
thesis development. And although this fact is often given as a
mechanical rule – a recipe to be rather thoughtlessly followed
– its effectiveness in enabling a reader to comprehend is enor-
mously powerful. In a doctoral thesis, the introduction and
conclusion are likely to be the sections that are skimmed by
readers trying to ascertain whether or not they need to read the
whole thing. (Even if you find yourself short of time for careful
proofing and checking at the end of your thesis writing, do not
fail to work on the introduction and conclusion.) When an ex-
aminer first gets the thesis on their desk they are likely to read
the abstract, the contents page, the introduction and conclu-
sion and possibly discussion to get a quick overall impression
of the task they have signed up for. These are the crucial places
for your best writing.
    The same principles apply to the way that structure suggests
emphasis: the first and last positions tend to be the most em-
phatic. Important points should not be found in grammatically
subordinate positions, or tucked somewhere within the mid-
dle of the paragraph. The introduction and conclusion of each
chapter should provide strong bookends, aiding the reader’s
comprehension by conforming to these implicit conventions.
A postmodern thesis may deliberately avoid closure and finish
with an open end, but in so doing it places emphasis on its
own paradigm. The emphasis principle still operates.
52   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       In addition, material in the final place will tend to supplant
     what came before it. Compare the following:
       A   We passed a pond filled with lotus plants in bloom. Then
           we passed a pond filled with plastic rubbish, oil sludge
           and old tins.
       B   We passed a pond filled with plastic rubbish, oil sludge
           and old tins. Then we passed a pond filled with lotus
           plants in bloom.
        There is a downturn to A and an uplift to B, although both
     contain the same weight of negative and positive information.
     The first example is a tragic model, the second is one of recu-
     peration. In a sequence of facts, the finally-given fact implicitly
     overrides earlier ones. Similarly, in a series within your thesis,
     the first and last places of discussion are likely to be the most
     significant. The strategy of putting what you most endorse last
     is a good logical principle based on the incremental nature of
     narrative.


     z
      Emphasis and proportion: suggestions for
      action
     Check that the word space you give to each part of your thesis
     is appropriate for its significance in contributing to your over-
     arching thesis argument. If you realize that you have included
     some material out of interest rather than for its relevance, con-
     sider removing it and saving it for publication. The effect of
     fascinating little snippets of information is that they enliven
     the thesis, but at the potential cost of making it read like a gos-
     sip column rather than a scholarly work. Unless you are sure
     you know that your examiner will value interest over demon-
     stration of academic scholarship, you should avoid too much
     detail that is not quite linked to your argument: examiners are
     evaluating your scholarly ability to be selective.
        If your thesis is one with multiple layers of voice, consider
     which layer will be the lens through which others are viewed.
     Establish a system by which the dominant layer frames the
     others. Check that the emphasis points of the first and last plac-
     es hold content that is highly significant. Check that important
     points are not buried so as to be easily missed.
                                       Emphasis and Proportion        53


z
 Readerly needs

Your judgment with proportion is crucial for clarity. If you are
driving an argument forward, non-essential material is like-
ly to distract. You are speaking to a reader’s mind, which is
alive and active. Throw it something too interesting to ignore
and the reader’s thoughts are likely to gallop off in that direc-
tion, away from your thread of argument. Stalinist discipline in
removing excess is required in order to control your reader’s
progression. You could read Sword’s The Writer’s Diet and take
the associated diagnostic ‘Waistline Test’ to uncover a bevy of
metaphors comparing indulgently inclusive writing to a flabby
body, perhaps at risk of a heart attack, in contrast to sleek lean
writing (Sword, 2007). Then when you are mourning the loss
of a favourite passage of writing, apply the fitness metaphors
for encouragement. Carefully storing material that you remove
will give you a head start for publication in the future, for those
articles that perhaps your quality review system will want to
wring from you should you find an academic career.
   Examiners’ reports typically comment on clarity. Johnston
(1997, p. 340) found after looking at 51 examiners’ reports
that the most common topic was the quality of writing, with
comments on both grammar and punctuation deficiencies, ‘or-
ganisation’ and ‘a sense of priorities and focus’. She cautions
against obfuscation. Mullins and Kiley (2002, p. 379) asked
doctoral thesis examiners what they required from candidates
and the key terms from the responses were ‘design, logic and
structure’. They also show examiner descriptors of a good the-
sis that included ‘design – where it all fits together’ (p. 379).
This leads into the topic of cohesion in the thesis.
3 Cohesion



A thesis is usually written as a series of separate documents.
The writer seldom begins at the beginning and works solidly in
sequence through to the end over the writing process. It is not
surprising, then, that when the chapter documents are assem-
bled into one, additional work is needed to ensure cohesion
across the whole entity. In this chapter, we outline some tech-
niques for contributing to cohesion in a thesis text. The first
suggestion we make is that you suspend disbelief and think of
your thesis as a story.


z
 Narrative

A friend of Susan’s was indignant:

  Everyone calls Ian Watt the foundational writer on the his-
  tory of the novel, but in his Rise of the Novel there is nothing
  that was not written before him. All he does is turn the novel
  into a character and tell its history as a ‘bildungsroman’ (or
  story of development). We are meant to be post-modern!
  How come academics fall for a simple story every time?

The answer to her question is that a simple story structure is
powerfully persuasive.
    Every thesis tells a story. Those who examine theses concur
that there must be a narrative to every thesis (Carter, 2009).
Many thesis manuals use the concept of narrative, with advice
such as ‘Outlining the narrative is for many a vital preliminary
step to the writing of the dissertation. Time spent at this stage
is well invested…’ (Madsen, 1988, p. 72). One of the goals of
the thesis writer is to ensure that the reader understands what
it is they are writing about. All readers have been raised on
stories, so narratives cue the reader as to what should come

                              54
                                                        Cohesion      55


next. Readers do not usually give much conscious thought to
the process as they are led along a narrative line, but the way
seems familiar. Safe on the storyline path, the reader can focus
on the content.
   With academic writing in a postmodern age, it is possible
that you will choose to take a less-travelled path. Yet the the-
sis can be viewed as a simple narrative. Every thesis conveys
new and often complex knowledge, and a boringly predica-
ble storyline is likely to aid the reader’s comfort. As Pentland
(1999) puts it, ‘Stories are like ruts in the road that people fol-
low and thereby re-create’ (Pentland, 1999, p. 712). The writer
who runs along in familiar ruts will appear to be taking the
right turns, travelling at an appropriate speed. The reader will
be focussed on content rather than form, but they are likely
to be humming along through the work in accord because it
seems somehow right. For the thesis writer, narrative conven-
tion gives cohesion and strengthens structure.
   Some graduate students in our survey recognized the im-
portance of narrative. Responses to the question, ‘What was
hard about structuring your thesis?’, included comments on
the difficulties of:

z
 generating a narrative;
z
 creating the ‘storyline’ in terms of coherence and flow;
z
 working out which technique tells the best story;
z
 the challenge to tell stories that develop theoretical in-
 sights and background.

   Ann tells the story of how she devised her thesis structure
with the need for it to tell a story in mind. Later, when she
found her argument actually shifted considerably, the story
framework still held strong:

  My doctorate tackled the question of what makes an effec-
  tive senior executive. It involved a quantitative study of over
  200 senior managers from Australia and New Zealand, in
  which I explored links between personality, on the one
  hand, and performance, on the other.
     I structured the thesis nine months into the doctorate, one
  summer evening over a pot of strong coffee. I then spent
56   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       three years slotting bits and pieces of writing into the struc-
       ture, as the opportunity arose. The final structure was exact-
       ly the same as it was on that evening, and I couldn’t imagine
       it any differently.
           In order to reach the point of structure (i.e., in the preced-
       ing nine months), I immersed myself in the literature. In my
       mind, I was on a ‘treasure hunt’ in which I searched for clues
       that would form a story about senior executive perform-
       ance. As I followed clues, I wrote a series of short, personal
       papers to chart my journey. In those papers, I articulated a
       research question, and located that question in a number of
       different literatures. I then developed my research methods,
       and, finally, documented the ‘so what’ of my thesis: why it
       mattered to business, and why it made an original contribu-
       tion. After writing that last piece, I was ready to develop the
       official thesis structure. It was then simply a matter of sitting
       at my desk and nutting it out, which only took a couple of
       hours.
           It wasn’t entirely plain sailing, though, at least not in the
       long term. That evening, I had visualized the hard-bound
       thesis, complete with my name on the spine, as being an
       ‘argument’ from beginning to end. I designed every chapter
       to have a punch-line, which would contribute one major ar-
       gument in support of a holistic contention, or so I thought.
       In developing my contention, I tried to write with just the
       right balance of authority and self-awareness, and, through
       that process, I convinced myself that my statistical findings
       would support the contention. Instead, the findings showed
       the opposite. Quickly, the thesis morphed into an explora-
       tion rather than an argument, I humbly reframed it, and was
       forced to re-think my convictions.
           I’m now about to get my thesis bound, as visualized, and
       it’s a momentous time after a marathon effort. I guess I didn’t
       end up with the contention, in book form, that I’d antici-
       pated. However, each chapter within my thesis tells a story
       about senior executive performance, and I like to think the
       story was one that my examiners were able to understand,
       and one that will help business leaders, even though the
       story is slightly different to what I had envisaged.
                                                        Cohesion     57


   Ann was aware that readers can understand stories, so they
are helpful vehicles for conveying your insights. However, it
can be difficult to figure out the best way to turn materials that
you envision as data into a story. We speculate that this is espe-
cially true when strong value systems underpin your work.
   Stories have long conveyed social values. Pentland (1999),
using narrative for the purpose of building process theory in
the field of management, considers sequence of events, focal
actors, voice, canonical or evaluative reference and other in-
dicators of context and content to apply narrative principles to
business process in a way that makes deep level sense of it. He
locates the way that:
  Narratives carry meaning and cultural value because they
  encode, implicitly or explicitly, standards against which the
  actions of the characters can be judged. In fairy tales (and
  their close cousins – text books) the moral is often explicit…
  But even without any explicit moral, narratives embody a
  sense of what is right and wrong, appropriate and inappro-
  priate, and so on. (Pentland, 1999, pp. 712–13)
Cultural values underlie the discipline-specific prose of the
thesis; they may be able to determine what kind of story you
are telling. Indeed, ‘the hermeneutical researcher most often
interprets and constructs new understandings via narrative
exposition’ (Parker, 2004, p. 168). Parker suggests narrative
possibilities:
  The researcher constructs their narrative around a plot that
  may represent a romance (a quest towards a desired end
  result), comedy (evolutionary or revolutionary progress),
  tragedy (a decline from a previously successful state or sat-
  ire where events overwhelm the actors). The narrative must
  offer a coherent account that includes all material relevant
  to the study’s aim, and that presents events and themes in a
  logical progression, drawing on data which best represents
  the themes being explicated. (2004, p. 165)
  It has been proposed that there are only seven stories in the
world and that all fiction retells them, sometimes with a twist
(Booker, 2004). Although we think this is an oversimplification,
58   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     we agree that there are some basic story plots that are deeply
     engrained and recurrent in cultural practices and other forms
     of expression.
        The thesis is not a work of fiction. Nonetheless, the more re-
     moved a thesis is from narrative, the more valuable it is for the
     author to actively think about the narrative forms that might
     shape the research so that ideas will be accessible to a reader
     hardwired to narrative principles. Arguably, as Booker (2004)
     claims, there are a limited number of basic tales and all stories
     fall somewhere within this range, either following the model
     or resisting it in some way. Consider a simplified outline of
     your thesis at large, perhaps looking again at your diagram
     and contents page. If your thesis were to be viewed as a story,
     what kind of story would it be?
        We will now outline common forms of tales that are centu-
     ries old and common to many cultures. To some extent, each
     genre has a language of its own. If you recognize that your
     thesis fits into one or more of these story types, you could use
     their conventions in the lexicon of headings to pick out the
     story line that assures and convinces a reader. The next sec-
     tion describes in more detail some core storylines that may be
     relevant.


     Bildungsroman: a narrative of development and
     maturation

     The bildungsroman follows the main character from birth to
     maturity, with an emphasis on the development of character,
     or moral self, on the way. Examples in literature are Goethe’s
     Wilhelm Meister, Dickens’ David Copperﬁeld and Brontë’s Jane
     Eyre. This type of story begins with lineage, staking out a gene-
     alogical claim to legitimacy, with parentage endowing the hero
     with certain qualities. The hero may be displaced as a child,
     separated from parents and security and cast into abjection.
     The bildungsroman considers notable events in infancy, which
     may be feats performed and/or setbacks or challenges to sur-
     vival and success; they can also be seen as tests or trials.
        Maturation is accomplished only after the hero has survived
     a challenge. Finally, the main character or hero reaches matu-
     rity, secures a place in the world, and produces offspring, who
                                                        Cohesion      59


then go in different directions, taking the gene pool to new
areas. This is the story that Susan’s friend complained under-
pins The Rise of the Novel (Watt, 1987) and thus seduces liter-
ary scholars into accepting Watt as a foundational authority.
Histories and stories of famous people were often told in this
mode: it is a comfortable one for establishing the ‘life’ story of
someone – or of something that is inanimate.
   How might this work as the narrative of a thesis? If the the-
sis is telling a foundational tale, or how something has come
about, many things could stand in as the hero in this narrative,
from a newly developed variety of grape, to an evolving style
of dance. In fact, a recent competition, ‘Dance your Ph.D’, by
inviting students to dramatize their research in a stage per-
formance, draws forth a deliberate choice of genre. We use the
competition below for a specific example of Romance, but also
suggest that this annual competition is likely to give you other
instantly available examples of theses declaring their narrative
style (and in fact, dancing it).


Quest: a narrative where the purpose is to ﬁnd a solution

The hero is given a quest, sometimes as a punishment or as a
rite of passage, usually as a legitimizing test that will establish
their place within a society. The quest sounds impossible. It
may have a formulaic dimension, such as things coming in
threes in fairy tales. The quest is likely to be on someone else’s
behalf, possibly saving something valuable. Unexpected chal-
lenges may be added to the expected. The hero may bungle
things initially. Almost inevitably, the quest is accomplished,
but often the hero and perhaps the world is altered in the proc-
ess. Things (like innocence, idealism and self-assurance) are
lost as well as gained or saved. Typically a quest story shows
how an individual gives to their society by exerting personal
effort to endorse its value system.
   How might a thesis narrative work in quest mode? To some
extent, every thesis is a quest in that the researcher is setting
out to find something new. However, some focus on a topic
which is also a quest of some kind, such as a thesis which
aims to bring a resolution to a problem in the world. The path
to answers (or ‘the’ answer) is beset with challenges, and some
60   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     long-held beliefs may be questioned, while others are upheld
     or new ones are introduced.


     Journey narrative

     This is the road version of the quest, and might be a journey
     away and returning, or simply away to somewhere new where
     resettlement will occur. This usually involves the discovery of
     amazing things on the way, but also self-discovery on the part
     of the traveller. Like the quest, it may involve setbacks and
     challenges as well as feats performed that show the superiority
     of the traveller. Journeys may investigate cultural difference
     between the travellers and the people they meet en route, and
     this difference may be resolved in a friendship with mutual
     benefit that strengthens both parties, or it may reinforce cul-
     tural difference. Early versions of this type often show how
     what is alien is accommodated through exchange; often they
     emerge from borderlands culture and are about borderlands
     negotiation.
        The ‘thesis as journey’ narrative is commonly employed
     amongst thesis writers (Brause, 2000) as it lends shape to the
     research process: although there may be side roads, there
     will also be a forward trajectory and a point of arrival at the
     destination.


     Tragedy: a narrative in which everyone dies at the end, or
     the hero and heroine die

     The hero is a valued figure with many impressive character-
     istics, but with a flaw that leaves him vulnerable, like Shake-
     speare’s character Hamlet. Tragic heroes often live in corrupt
     and unjust societies, with treachery a condition of existence.
     Although they struggle against corruption, through their flaw
     they are found to be vulnerable. The ending is death. Fre-
     quently there is an apocalyptic sense that this is the death of
     a whole people, the fictional world, and not just those whose
     bodies pile up on the stage at the end of the show. While these
     stories are often precautionary, showing the disaster that hu-
     man greed and ambition can cause, they can also point to the
     possibility of new regimes emerging. In Hamlet, for example,
                                                         Cohesion      61


the pile of bodies at the close of the play signals the arrival of
a new order.
   In a thesis, the rise and fall of a particular person or order of
things (a particular ideology, for example) could be represent-
ed as a tragedy from which important lessons can be learned.
Or the tragedy may be that no clear solutions to problems can
be identified.


Romance narrative

Two young people meet and are attracted to each other. Im-
portantly they are both likable and attractive to the audience,
young and fertile. However, there is some impediment to their
marriage. There may be more than one set of potential lovers,
and a tangle or mix-up of identities involved. Class difference
and a particularly difficult parent may be factors. Underpinning
the obstacle to marriage are conflicting sets of social values.
Usually, conservatism blocks innovation. Finally, the impedi-
ment is overcome and marriage is accomplished with the gen-
eral celebration of all. Society is to continue, thanks to the tri-
umph of love, and the overthrow of conservatism’s tyranny.
    In thesis terms, the ‘marriage’ of two things could represent
a union, and possibly new birth, achieved after overcoming ob-
stacles. For example, Joel Miller, the 2011 winner of the ‘Dance
your Ph.D’ contest, utilized a romance narrative to explain his
research in biomedical engineering, as you can see from the
title of his dance presentation: ‘Microstructure-Property rela-
tionships in Ti2448 components produced by Selective Laser
Melting: A Love Story’ (Dance your Ph.D, 2011). Critical theo-
rist Belsey (1994) points out that romance is a reassuring nar-
rative form, and that in broad terms the motivation of desire
and pursuit of wholeness that romance represents is a domi-
nant narrative in Western culture, reiterated in many forms.


Loss and recuperation narratives

Something valuable is described to show its preciousness,
which will be recognizable to the audience, and then it is tragi-
cally lost. It seems impossible for it to be regained. There may
be several attempts that fail, drawing out the pathos of the
62   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     situation. Eventually, the right combination of quester, fate and
     season allows the miraculous to occur and the lost thing is
     recuperated. Again, this story type has optimism in the face of
     loss.
        For a researcher, the loss and recuperation narrative may
     work for a thesis which describes the loss and discovery of
     artefacts, to take a literal angle, or for a less tangible precious
     ‘thing’ (a nation’s prosperity, a cure for a disease). The hero
     could be someone else whose work or discovery is described –
     or it could be the thesis writer themselves.


     Overcoming the monster

     A monster is threatening a whole people, and cannot be
     stopped in the carnage it wreaks. It may be a historic pest or
     something new. It may be fantastical and will probably, almost
     unavoidably, be symbolic of evil, alterity and death. A hero de-
     cides to confront it, generally with the blessing of elders, and
     with some ceremony. The hero succeeds and the monster is
     banished, usually killed. The hero may be killed too or this
     episode may be part of the narrative of maturation, or even
     romance.
        In research terms, there are many potential ‘monsters’! As
     with the loss and recuperation narrative, figuring a research
     problem as a monster to be overcome can offer an effective
     narrative form for the thesis.
        Consider whether your thesis has the potential to be more
     than one of these story types. Always bear in mind that struc-
     ture and order affects meaning, and so too does the narrative
     conventions that your thesis employs.


     Narrative conventions

     To some extent, narrative conventions map on to disciplines,
     as we found, to our surprise and interest, from our survey of
     92 doctoral students. For example, education and business the-
     ses tend to tell romances and to a lesser extent, tragedies; arts
     and humanities favour quests (Carter and Blumenstein, 2011).
        Some material has the capacity to be told as a tragedy or as
     a romance, or a recuperation story. When there is an option as
                                                         Cohesion      63


to the ordering of material, one consideration is whether you
prefer to finish positively (opening up possibilities) or negative-
ly (the outcome is ‘no solution’). You could consider where you
want the thesis to take you in future research or employment,
and what your hopes would be for pursuing further research
on the topic.
    Recognizing which kind of story best conveys the direction
of your thesis, and consciously using the language and for-
mula of that particular type, can perform multiple tasks. Your
reader will feel confident that the text is progressing in the right
way because it is familiar at a basic (non-academic) level. You
will get cohesion to the framework of the thesis by exploit-
ing narrative convention throughout it. Consciously selecting
the story type will reinforce the axiology that you want to sit
behind your study. Are you conveying an optimistic message,
or a cautious one, or are you endorsing new generational im-
pulses while rebuffing the conservative? The bottom line is that
your examiner must be satisfied that your thesis has a logical
progression, developing an argument as the academic equiva-
lent of a plot and avoiding the sense that you are amassing
facts without linking them into meaning-making. We focus on
meaning-making and axiology as means to ensuring cohesion:
the deeper levels of the work can be criteria for selecting the
strategies that will ensure that your thesis has cohesion.


z
 Metaphor for structure

Like narrative, metaphor can also be used as a structural device.
In the following story, Frances outlines how a metaphor that
enabled her to conceptualize the thesis as a single entity also
provided her with a means of ordering material coherently.
  The central metaphor at work in my English literature thesis
  on the fiction of A.S. Byatt was originally the double helix,
  used to introduce the themes of the thesis. As the abstract to
  the thesis describes, it is an exploration of Byatt’s engage-
  ment with ‘a persistent “thread of two” in Western discourse’
  (Kelly, 2002, p. ii): man/woman, world/word, past/present,
  self/other. My interest in the dual focus of these texts is
  made apparent in the chapter headings and subtitles: each
64   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       points to the interplay between ‘two things’ in Byatt’s fic-
       tion and establishes this dominant metaphor throughout the
       text. In my mind, I very clearly saw this interaction of ‘two
       things’ in terms of the double helix spiral. I remember very
       clearly having an ‘a-ha!’ moment when I realized that the
       central argument of my thesis and its overall structure could
       be encapsulated in the metaphor of the double helix. I re-
       member just as clearly experiencing the feeling that I would
       have to revise it.
           Despite my best efforts, the neatly coiling strands of
       two became knotty and entangled with other threads. For
       a while I carried around the image of the medusa-headed
       starfish, after I had seen one in the natural history section of
       the Auckland Museum. In some ways, this metaphor for the
       thesis was also appropriate. The thesis includes an analysis
       of one character’s attempt to study the reproductive organs
       of sea creatures, ‘various Hydras and plumed worms that
       could be got to bud new heads and segments’; each time
       the amateur naturalist slices a tentacle off the hydra a ‘new
       creature’ forms (Byatt, 1990, pp. 248–9). This image of By-
       att’s naturalist, itself a metaphor for the way arguments can
       spawn, is possibly the reason for my most vivid thesis dream
       in which the thesis was figured as ‘born’ (childbirth is a well-
       worn metaphor for thesis production), only it was not one
       child, but two, that I gave birth to, one of whom was two-
       headed.
           Fortunately, the image of the knot (also courtesy of Byatt)
       brought a kind of unity to the diversity of strands explored by
       the thesis. As a working metaphor, the knot enabled me to
       imagine or visualize the thesis as a single entity, comprised
       of a number of different double-helical strands, which was
       extremely helpful during the protracted writing process. As
       a working metaphor, the knot comprised of helical strands
       enabled me to imagine or visualize the thesis as a single en-
       tity, albeit one characterized by a degree of unruliness or
       knottiness. The metaphor of the double helix also allowed
       me to set two things alongside each other, without subsum-
       ing one to the other. It allowed me to retain, and not try to
       resolve, contradictions implied by the combination of oppo-
       sites (past/present, life/death).
                                                       Cohesion     65


   For some writers, metaphor is used to underscore a central
finding. Ian’s story shows how historical case studies (derived
from separate archival repositories) were melded into a the-
sis structure once the overarching purpose of the thesis had
been stumbled upon. The case studies became the chapters.
The ‘mind-mapping’ exercise was an instantaneous ‘see-
ing the light’ moment preserved on the back of an envelope.
With hindsight, Ian adopted Davis and McKay’s (1996) Point A,
Topic 1, Topic 2 model.

  I only had one ‘a ha’ moment during the doctorate, but it
  turned out to be a very important one in terms of structur-
  ing the thesis. My thesis research topic was the teenage or
  ‘youth market’ in America during the affluent post-war years
  of the 1950s and 1960s. One day, about 18 months into the
  research, I read an article in a business magazine from 1964
  (in historian’s terms a ‘primary’ document) in which an
  economist proclaimed that the ‘baby boom’ generation of
  American teenagers were now ‘ripe for harvest’. That’s my
  thesis title I thought. At this point I had collected data from
  several archives which meant, in effect, I had several case
  studies in search of a framework.
     Once I had my thesis title in mind I was able to scrib-
  ble down my chapter headings on the back of an envelope
  to provide the scaffolding. I knew I would need a literature
  review of some kind and decided to integrate this into my
  introduction that would set the scene and give the reader
  a sense of historic backdrop, the scholarly debates about
  the historic roots of consumerism and existing studies on
  marketing to teenagers, a route map for the thesis reader
  (providing a rationale for which case study came in which
  order) and, finally, my theoretical approach to understand-
  ing historical documents.
     The body of the thesis then fell into place. The first sec-
  tion explored the post-war development of youth marketing
  as a specialist business enterprise. The middle core looked
  at youth marketing from three perspectives: how a broad-
  casting company attempted to develop radio and TV pro-
  grammes that would attract young viewers and listeners and
  in turn attract advertisers; how a major advertising agency
66   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       created campaigns for their clients directly pitched at young
       consumers; and then how government agencies used public-
       service advertising to promote healthy living to teenagers.
       This middle core was the case studies that had already been
       researched. The final part of the thesis core looked at the
       debate during the 1950s and 1960s over the alleged harmful
       impact of commercialising childhood and adolescence. My
       title ‘ripe for harvest’ was given a question mark allowing
       for some ‘yes’ or ‘no’ conclusions to the thesis. Just because
       an economist thought youngsters were about to be com-
       mercially exploited does not mean they necessarily were.
           I converted my brainstorm scribbles into a tidy typed
       Word document as a mock thesis content page and nerv-
       ously handed it to my supervisor as the main agenda item
       for one of our regular supervision meetings. With a few ju-
       dicious suggestions for making it ‘stick’ and clear advice on
       the purpose of the literature review within the introduction
       she and I had an agreed thesis structure.
           My ‘a ha’ moment got me out of jail so to speak. Without
       the title as an over-arching concept my thesis might have
       struggled to have any cohesion. The one thing I should have
       done was read a few doctoral theses to get a feel for how
       they should be (or could be) structured. It amazes me now
       to realize I spent 18 months doing extensive secondary and
       primary archival research for my doctorate without really
       knowing how the thesis was going to be structured.

        Ian was also a secondary advisor for Helen Laurenson’s
     Master’s thesis ‘Going up? Going down! The rise and fall of
     Auckland department stores 1920-1960’ (Laurenson, 2003)
     which uses the metaphor of the department store building it-
     self, with different floors devoted to different kinds of products,
     as a structural device. It is clear to see in this example the way
     in which the tenor and vehicle are related; to put it another
     way, the form and content of the thesis are aligned through the
     structural metaphor of the department store.
        In Susan’s survey of groups of thesis writers, she asked if they
     use metaphors to talk (or think) about their structure and, if so,
     which metaphors they use. Twenty-one of 85 responded that
                                                                                  Cohesion   67


they did. This text cloud represents the proportion of mentions
a particular metaphorical image received.

                        art branches brick building
  alchemy alignment architecture

  bus changes circles community concentric criss cross cubist entire



  foundation interweaving   journey                          knitting lop-sided
  mind modern moment moving narrative national opera organizing outwards pathways
                                                                                  map
  personal photomontage political pyramid quest rigid social spiritual springs   story
  strong structure sword symphony think tip tree yes
    Survey participants identified a number of journey-related
metaphors, like the pathway or quest, and also spatial met-
aphors. Other thesis writers have used travel, pathways and
journeys, together with spatial metaphors of maps and bound-
aries, as structural devices.
    In the thesis ‘Learning to Cross Borders’ Francis Collins em-
ploys an extended metaphor of travel, using images of cross-
ings, bridges and borders to structure a geography thesis on
‘emergent transnational mobility’ (Collins, 2006, p. ii). As this
short excerpt from the table of contents indicates, the chapter
titles are a balance of key research terms, metaphors that re-
late to travel and mobility, and generic descriptors of content:
  Chapter One: First Steps
      Borders, Bordering and Border Crossing
      South Korea and International Education
      Urban Experience in South Korea and Auckland
      Research Participants, Objectives and Approaches
      Organisation of the Thesis
   Similarly, in a thesis in literary studies, Sean Sturm (2008)
employs the language of travel, geography and nomadism
throughout. The author whose work is being analyzed, George
Chamier, is termed an ‘Epicurean’ and an ‘unsettled settler’
whose mobility is a central thread of the thesis argument.
Chamier’s travel destinations provide the overall structure
for the thesis, as you can see in the excerpt from the contents
page:
68   Structuring Your Research Thesis


       I   Europe (1912–15; 1842–59)
           1 England: Full Circle to the Centre (1912–15)
           Detour 1: Chamier the Epicurean 1 – a Critical Position
           Detour 2: Chamier – Life and Works
           2 England: Home? (1842–44)
           3 Europe: An Intellectual Home (1844–59)
       II New Zealand (1859–69)
           1 Out to New Zealand (1859)
           2 The Cadet (1860–64)
           Juncture 1: Philosopher Dick: Raleigh, Unsettler and
           Unsettled Settler
           3 The Road Surveyor (1864–66)
           Juncture 2: A South-Sea Siren: Raleigh, Lover or
           Truth-Lover
           4 The Assistant Surveyor (1866–69)
       III Australia (1869–1908)
           1 Adventure (1869–71)
           2 Melbourne (1871–77)
           Juncture 3: The Story of a Successful Man: Tim’s Story,
           the Story of an Unsettled Settler
           3 Adelaide (1877–90)
           4 Sydney (1890–1908)
       IV China and England 1908–15
           1 China (1908–12)
           Detour 3: Chamier the Epicurean 2 – a Final
           Philosophy

     Sturm’s thesis also employs cartographical representations and
     charts depicting the movement and trajectories of characters in
     the novels to visually demonstrate their ‘unsettledness’.
        For these two thesis writers, the metaphors of journey and
     travel provide structural scaffolding which relates to the the-
     sis content. For others, including some of those surveyed, the
     journey metaphor represents their own thesis-writing experi-
     ence. Personal metaphors for thesis writing, such as the jour-
     ney (Brause, 2000), are a powerful means of describing the
     process of conducting research and can be usefully harnessed
     in the ordering of thesis material. If a metaphor has individual
     meaning and significance and can be utilized in shaping the
     thesis text, employing it is a way of bringing something of the
                                                          Cohesion      69


self, or of the thesis writer’s values, into the text, which for
some thesis writers is a vital element of writing.

Cultural metaphors
The use of cultural concepts as a methodology or framework
demonstrates the power of metaphor to provide structure at
an ontological level. We have found that cultural frameworks
are at work in theses by Ma    -ori (the indigenous people of New
Zealand) and Pasifika (Pacific Island) researchers, but could
likewise inspire any thesis writer whose cultural background
motivates or informs their research.
   The examples we now briefly discuss bridge the gap between
specific cultural beliefs, or frameworks, and academic conven-
tions. Cultural metaphors, like others, give the mechanics for
cohesion, but, more importantly, give a strategy for building a
structure that embodies deep-level values.
   In the thesis ‘Me he korokoro ka-mako [‘With the throat of
a bellbird’]: A Ma- ori Aesthetic in Ma  - ori Writing in English’ by
Jon Battista (2004), the author uses the concept of whakapapa
(which in English refers to both ‘family’ and ‘genealogy’) as a
theoretical framework and a structuring device. According to
Battista’s abstract, the thesis proposes ‘a definition of a Ma-ori
aesthetic grounded in the principle of whakapapa’. As she goes
on to state, whakapapa is ‘the central motif and methodology
in the thesis’ and it provides a structural metaphor. ‘The struc-
ture of this thesis itself deploys the idea of whakapapa as an
organizing principle’ (Battista, 2004, p. 5). The thesis has two
sections: one refers to ‘parents’ and the other to ‘children’:

  The main body of the thesis is divided, simply, into two
  Parts, each consisting of six chapters, and the relationship
  of these two Parts is itself, also, intended to exemplify a core
  principle of whakapapa. The first Part examines texts by two
  major adult authors, one female and the other male, Patricia
  Grace and Witi Ihimaera. The second offers a detailed analy-
  sis of contemporary Ma   - ori literature for children. (Battista,
  2004, p. 6)

  There is a related metaphor at work in the thesis structure:
the waka (or canoe). Battista (2004, pp. 6–7) outlines how the
70   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     two metaphors really work together to underscore the central-
     ity of whakapapa as a concept and structural device:

       This main body of the thesis is framed by a Prologue (a
       discussion of Jacqueline Sturm’s poem, ‘E Waka’) and an
       Epilogue (a discussion of Robert Sullivan’s epic sequence,
       Star Waka). These brief sections are designed to ensure the
       association of whakapapa on several levels. The first lev-
       el allows metaphoric recourse to the waka as a significant
       symbol of identity – all Ma-ori have lineal ties with the para-
       mount chiefs of the great waka. Furthermore, irrespective of
       the colonial process and ongoing interventions, waka are
       the bearers of, and the visual reminders of, a culturally ex-
       clusive people and body of knowledge. Jacqueline Sturm’s
       poem as the tauihu, or prow, of the thesis acknowledges her
       as a forerunner in the submission and acceptance of work
       for publication. Robert Sullivan’s writing a generation later
       forms the taurapa, or stern. Together with all the other anal-
       yses of the texts I have selected, they represent the vehicle
       by which a Ma-ori aesthetic of writing is substantiated.

         Shaping the thesis through culturally specific metaphor ena-
     bles the writer to inhabit multiple positions as an academic
     and community leader. The values of the community are em-
     phasized and privileged when they drive the thesis structure.
     Battista’s thesis is an example of this, with indigenous values
     overlapping with academic ones, which are expressed through
     a culturally specific lexicon and framework.
         Cook Islander, Teremoana Maua-Hodges, offers the tivaevae
     model as a useful framework for the research thesis (Maua-
     Hodges, 2000). Tivaevae are the beautiful, large appliquéd
     bedspreads traditionally made by collectives of women as gifts
     for special occasions. Maua-Hodges’ tivaevae model is an-
     other metaphor for research in which different materials from
     different sources are stitched together into a new larger pat-
     tern. Again, it is not new to note that the thesis is ‘woven’ or
     ‘stitched’ in the sense that it is always multi-voiced, built on
     the research literature, and has supervisors and advisors con-
     tributing. The tivaevae tradition of communal creation gives a
     cultural metaphor that expresses this, making the comparison
                                                       Cohesion     71


between the academic and Pasifika communities concrete,
visual and vivid.
   Behind these methods is the belief that, although academic
epistemologies must be considered, so must the deeper-level
value that underpins much research. Nabobo declares that:
‘Knowledge is connected to the worldview of a people. Epis-
temological assumptions are, in my view, derived largely from
the way a group of people see their world’ (Nabobo, 2003,
p. 88). Stokes (1985, p. 19) takes the view that ‘the traditional
detached academic stance of the universities is not only inad-
equate, but in many situations irrelevant… What needs to be
explored now are ways in which other cultural frameworks
can be admitted and given appropriate status in research
methodologies’.
   Having considered the underlying cohesion that can be
achieved by deep level, axiological models of narrative and
metaphor, with cultural metaphors as examples of well theo-
rized practice, we turn to the language struts and stays that
hold the structure firmly together.


z
 Joinery: bringing the parts together

Once you put your chapters together and get your first full
draft, you have reached a significant milestone that deserves
celebration. This enables you to very clearly see your thesis
as a single whole entity. And now a new set of tasks confronts
you: smoothing the junctions, ensuring that the texture and
tension of the writing is consistent (unless there is a good
reason for it not to be) and tying the parts into a whole. The
tension (to borrow a knitting term) may have altered as your
writing developed over the several years of the doctorate, so
that you may need to tighten or loosen up sections that were
written early on. The work may need editing so that voice is
consistent. It is common to summarize each chapter briefly
on concluding it, and to ensure that the next links logically so
that the reader can see how it continues the story line. Once
the thesis is together as a whole, you may feel that this work is
heavy-handed, and cut back some of the linkage, or it may be
that some of the junctions are abrupt and bridging work needs
to be installed.
72   Structuring Your Research Thesis


         The final stage of the thesis is also the time when the struc-
     ture of the overall thesis becomes more baldly apparent.
     Approaching submission often creates tension, and frequently
     candidates feel anxious about earlier structuring decisions. At
     this stage we suggest that you work closely with your supervi-
     sor and any other advisors on hand to get help with judgment.
     Although you may attend to ensuring good joinery rather me-
     chanically, the effect works at a deeper level to demonstrate
     that the thesis – its impetus, ideas and analysis – is fully in-
     tegrated. In advising on the discussion section of the thesis,
     White (2011, p. 302) notes that referring back to earlier chap-
     ters helps to ‘place the findings in context and show how the
     theoretic perspective applied provided particular and valuable
     insights.’ Examiners respond well to a demonstration that you
     are in control of the written thesis as a whole entity; joinery
     enables you to do this clearly, as you ‘top and tail’ chapters,
     and make the linkages that secure your overall thesis. Other
     readers looking for what your work offers to their own will also
     appreciate you actually showing how the methods, literature,
     and theory work together to make meaning of your results.
         It is likely that a major revision of your thesis might give
     you a more sophisticated or creative thesis; if you do not need
     to do this, however, simply tidy it up and hand it in. It is not
     uncommon to lose confidence in the final stages of writing a
     thesis and you should get a second and perhaps third diagnosis
     if you feel you need to begin again and do a huge amount of
     work before submission. Time should be a significant factor
     when you consider what changes need to be made: there will
     always be improvements that could be made, but you should
     do as few of these as you can and submit the thesis. Submis-
     sion is likely to be the most immediate concern, but the thesis
     is just one product of all your thought and work. You yourself
     as a researcher and your future publication are others.
         You are likely to need some work on your thesis to provide
     the guidance and assurance that keeps readers feeling they are
     in good hands. As Manalo and Trafford (2004, p. 93) declare:
     ‘Your thesis is not a mystery novel’. You will want a sense of
     progression, and may decide to reserve some findings until to-
     wards the end of your thesis, but nonetheless the reader will
     want to be guided as to where you are leading them. Most
                                                        Cohesion      73


readers will happily follow you anywhere as long as you tell
them in advance where they will be heading. Here are some
pointers for the signposting that is vital for flow and cohesion.


A map

We suggest that the overview map that is usually at the end of
the introduction is strongest when it explains the argument’s
movement and development by describing what is in the chap-
ters. Readers are reassured by knowing what they are entering.
A strong overview map will also establish why the thesis flows
as it does:

  Chapter one reviews literature to date, using past research
  to build a methodological platform for this study. Chapter
  two adds to this an explanation of two theoretical models
  adapted sequentially to… Chapter three demonstrates the
  advantages of this combination with five case studies.

Once the reader has the overview clearly explained, along with
the reasons for structure, joinery linking the sections will assist
them with road maps throughout the thesis assuring them of
where they are and where they are headed.


Subtitling

Some graduate students use subtitles throughout the writing
process because such usage is consistent with their discipline’s
norms. Those disciplines that do not usually use a great deal
of signposting expect more subtitles in research theses than
is common in undergraduate assignments. Data from student
surveys (Carter and Blumenstein, 2011) showed that an over-
whelming majority of students used subtitles (96.1%) and most
(89%) have indicated that the frequency of using subtitles in
their doctorate had increased or would increase compared
to subtitle frequency in their undergraduate writing. Frances’
story (pp. 63–4) also indicates the role that subtitles can have
in contributing to the structural cohesion of the thesis, in this
instance through an extended metaphor. Thesis length justifies
signalling and signposting for direction.
74   Structuring Your Research Thesis


        Your subtitling system should make sense of your structur-
     ing choices. You might begin in this task as Moore (2000, p. 81)
     suggests: ‘Think about levels within the structure. Some con-
     cepts are of equal weight or importance; some are subordinate
     to others. Reflect these relationships in your structure.’ This is
     sound advice, but some authors may have difficulty deciding
     where to put emphasis, and which of their concepts should be
     subordinated, which elevated to top rank. If this is the case,
     inserting subtitles with (only) the relevant material under them
     helps to make progress.
        All the material on one topic should be kept together for
     the purpose of clarity. If lack of clarity is a difficulty, install-
     ing subtitles, ensuring that only topic-specific material is under
     them, and then ordering them logically will usually resolve the
     problem. Sequencing of the sections is likely to be more obvi-
     ous once the segmentation has been effected. Subtitles provide
     convenient little handles for the cutting and pasting job if the
     sequence is not quite right. Your thought on the axiology in-
     herent in storyline and metaphor should help you to recognize
     how the subtitled parts best fit together. This may be the point
     where you can see that one section is longer than its contribu-
     tion to the thesis is worth, or that something significant is dis-
     cussed in fragmented pieces that might be best put together.
        We suggest that you aim to make subtitles as useful as pos-
     sible by ensuring that they contain your ideas, the spark, rather
     than more inert material such as facts. The process of writ-
     ing a thesis takes facts and renders them dynamic in mean-
     ing, something larger than their sum. If you could title a sec-
     tion ‘The Romantics’ which is large and vague, you could ask
     yourself why you are introducing the Romantics at this point
     and make the answer your subtitle: ‘Nature made divine: The
     Romantics’ or ‘Daffodils and cocaine: The Romantics reflect on
     reality’ or ‘Romanticism’s pre-conceptualizing of reality TV’
     depending on your main point about this group of writers. For
     many disciplines, the more concrete, specific and lively your
     subtitles, the more helpful and enhancing they will be.
        Rankin points out that in addition to useful subtitles, you
     can repeat language clusters in what she calls ‘echo links’ to
     show that themes are consistently woven through the the-
     sis (Rankin, 2001, p.30). ‘Sometimes the signposts are fairly
                                                        Cohesion      75


obvious, as in chapter titles, numbered and titled scenarios…
Other signposts, sometimes called echo links, are less obvi-
ous because they are embedded in the language.’ Simply using
the same terms, sometimes phrases, or reiterating metaphors
throughout the thesis will provide weft links through the text.
   Once the final draft is fused together as one document, it
is possible to see repeats throughout the thesis more clearly.
To avoid repeats of explanatory material, hook sections with
directives such as ‘explained further in Chapter 5’; ‘described
briefly above in Chapter 2’. This linking complements the use
of ‘echo link’ phrases that carry idea strands throughout the
thesis. White (2011, p. 132) uses the terms ‘preview, overview
and recall’ for joinery sentences:

  Previews anticipate what is to follow later in the thesis or,
  as in the following from a chapter introduction, later in the
  same chapter: The following analysis is represented in two
  stages. In the ﬁrst the current perspectives on… are evaluated.
  The second is a critical evaluation of … Overviews may look
  in both directions: In this chapter the reason for … has been
  discussed. In the next section this discussion will be elaborated
  by… Recalls look back on the earlier stage of the text: As
  described in the introduction… (Emphasis in original)

   Nonetheless, White cautions that such sentences should be
used with caution. We agree that a balance must be found be-
tween providing the comfort of a clear framework of the thesis’
direction (which aids an examiner’s evaluation of your overall
control) and avoiding boring the reader through too much pre-
emption and repetition. Those echo links should not develop
a hollow ring.


Explaining structure in the introduction

Examiners read with a sense of duty: the role obliges them
to question your choices. You are likely to need to add more
explanation of your structure with the vision enabled by the
first full draft. Tony’s story in Chapter 1 (pp. 29–30), recounting
his writing up of a methodology section, tells of this process:
having to explain what he was doing in his thesis enabled him
76   Structuring Your Research Thesis


     to see what was not progressing logically, and to install more
     cohesion through shifting things around and removing some
     of them.
        The more unusual and creative the structure, the more in-
     depth this defensive explanation should be so that there is no
     risk that an examiner might fail to see the principles at work in
     the structure. In our experience, structure can be a highly in-
     novative aspect of the thesis, but when this is the case, it needs
     to be theorized and defended early on so that examiners feel
     choices were sound academic ones, in keeping with the epis-
     temology of the discipline(s).
        A final task will be ensuring that the prose itself emphasizes
     the contribution to research. The conclusion should have an
     emphasis to it that removes the ‘so what?’ from the reader’s
     mind. Thinking of the introduction and conclusion as bookends
     may help to ensure that the originality of the study is under-
     scored in both these significant places. Ensure that if the topic
     shifted slightly over the duration of the doctorate, the conclu-
     sion does in fact anchor all of the ideas that initiated the writ-
     ten thesis in the introduction. Read the two sections together
     and ensure narrative integrity.


     z
      Readerly needs

     The shift from author-perspective (what do I need to say?)
     to reader-perspective (what is it my reader will understand
     from this?) is not always easy, particularly after several years
     of engagement with the writing process. Yet your ability to
     make this shift and provide support for your reader is likely
     to make the examination process smoother. It has the added
     benefit of making your work more accessible to a wider range
     of readers once it is completed. The ability to step back and
     read your own work as a reader who is not familiar with your
     topic would is an asset to add to those that you have already
     acquired during your graduate studies. Thomas and Brubaker
     (2000, p. 245) suggest that you consider what you would ask
     if you ‘knew nothing about this topic and … wanted to know
     about this research’ and then think about the order in which
     you would like to have your questions answered.
                                                       Cohesion     77


  Imagining an audience is an important element of writing.
Give your writing to others to read on a regular basis: your su-
pervisors, members of a writing group, other doctoral students
or colleagues in your discipline. Get used to writing for an
audience that is scholarly, but not too intimidating. Consider
what it is that your audience knows. Ask yourself:

z
 Who will be reading what you write? Will they have an
 inherent interest in and extensive knowledge of it?
z
 Will the reader(s) be able to follow your argument? Do
 you need to include ‘signposts’ along the way? Is it logi-
 cal? Can the reader(s) make the connections?

   These questions open up the final stages of the thesis proc-
ess in which you need to swing your head from your authorial
perspective to that of the reader, ensuring that structure ena-
bles readerly comfort as well as being true to your topic. We
suspect that it is only once you have a complete draft together
that you will be able to truly focus on the reader’s needs of the
whole thesis.
Conclusion



A thesis is a curious, multi-tasking act of communication.
Firstly, it is a tough old nut with a rich kernel: new knowledge
or understanding. For survival, that kernel must be accessible;
clarity is crucial. Secondly, the thesis is an entry-point to a re-
search profession. It must demonstrate its author’s command
of the practices and languages of the field of research: the thesis
represents a ritualistic demonstration of maturity within a spe-
cific community. Thirdly, the thesis is an act of self-fashioning.
Its theoretical positioning and textual voice creates the aca-
demic persona that its author is likely to inhabit for some time.
To some extent, you create yourself in writing a thesis, and,
as a live author creating the textual presence of a thesis, must
write into existence a self that you will be comfortable inhabit-
ing. The structure of the thesis affects each of the tasks that the
thesis performs.
    The dimensions of the work of structure have significance
to some of the work of the thesis that is essentially social: ena-
bling access; persuading a community of your own maturity
and worthiness for responsibility; and creating a persona that
is credible and creditable. Finding a final structure may be psy-
chologically challenging because this is not just about good
writing skills but about engaging and connecting with other
people. If decisions have been hard for you to make, this is
probably because the work behind the thesis matters to you,
and because you care about how the people who read your
thesis will receive you as an author. It is also possible that the
deep-level values, the axiology of your discipline, your data
and yourself (as a person rather than primarily as a profession-
al) are affected by the structure of your thesis.
    In this book, we have split comments on structuring a thesis
into three sections covering order, emphasis and cohesion. We
have used suggestions from a number of thesis-writing guides
                               78
                                                     Conclusion     79


as well as our own, and stories from thesis writers including
ourselves. The three strands of structure – order, emphasis and
cohesion – also overlap to some extent. Although we feel that
thinking about the mechanics of designing structure can be
done best by thinking through these three lenses as a means of
angling at precision, we do not mean to suggest that structural
choices are merely mechanical. They are not: they are also
socially situated. As with most social systems, there are covert
rules behind writing that readers interpret as a semiotic sys-
tem. Readers will think that more space on one topic makes it
more important than parallel-level topics that were given less
space. They will tend to focus on the first and the last, and to
read the thesis as a narrative that progresses developmentally.
What comes towards the end will therefore be seen as super-
seding what came earlier. Awareness of some of the covert
working of structure will hopefully enable you to mechanically
manipulate the semiotics of structure to suit the social tasks of
the thesis.
   We reiterate that theses usually require compromise. They
are never really finished, but merely, their closure is negoti-
ated. This is planet Earth, a place of imperfection. As fellow
dwellers in such a place of negotiated compromise, we wish
you strength and satisfaction in decisively shaping your thesis
structure according to what really matters about your work.
Bibliography



J.L. Austin (1975) How to do things with words (Cambridge, MA:
    Harvard University Press).
J. Battista (2004) ‘Me he korokoro [With the throat of a bellbird]: A
    Ma - ori aesthetic in Ma
                           - ori writing in English’, unpublished PhD
    thesis, University of Auckland.
T. Becher (1994) ‘The significance of disciplinary differences’,
    Studies in Higher Education, 19, 151–61.
T. Becher and P. Trowler (2001) Academic tribes and territories:
    Intellectual enquiry and the culture of disciplines, 2nd edn
    (Philadelphia: Open University Press).
C. Belsey (1994) Desire: Love stories in Western culture (Oxford:
    Blackwell).
D. Bleich (2001) ‘The materiality of language and the pedagogy of
    exchange’, Pedagogy: Critical approaches to teaching literature,
    language, composition and culture, 1, 117–41.
C. Booker (2004) The seven basic plots: Why we tell stories (London:
    Continuum).
R.S. Brause (2000) Writing your doctoral dissertation: Invisible rules
    for success (London: Falmer Press).
A.S. Byatt (1990) Possession: A Romance (London: Chatto &
    Windus).
S. Carter (2009) ‘Old lamps for new: Mnemonic techniques and
    the thesis structure’, Arts and Humanities in Higher Education,
    8, 56–68.
S. Carter and M. Blumenstein (2011) ‘Thesis structure: Student
    experience and attempts towards solution’, conference paper
    presented at 34th Annual International HERDSA Conference,
    4–7 July 2011.
F.L. Collins (2006) ‘Learning to cross borders: Everyday urban en-
    counters between South Korea and Auckland’, unpublished
    PhD thesis, University of Auckland.
Dance your Ph.D (2011) Science AAAS. Accessed at http://
    gonzolabs.org/dance/, viewed 28 October 2011.

                                80
                                                       Bibliography     81


L. Davis and S. McKay (1996) Structure and strategies: An introduc-
   tion to academic writing (South Yarra: Macmillan).
Department for Education and Skills (2007) Bologna Process
   Stocktaking London 2007, http://www.ond.vlaanderen.be/
   hogeronderwijs/bologna/documents/WGR2007/Stocktaking_
   report2007.pdf
P. Dunleavy (2003) Authoring a PhD: How to plan, draft, write and
   ﬁnish a doctoral thesis or dissertation (Basingstoke: Palgrave
   Macmillan).
N.L. Eik-Nes (2008) ‘Front stage and back stage writing: Using logs
   to rehearse and develop a disciplinary role’, Nordic Journal of
   English Studies, 7, 181–98.
A.A. Glatthorn (1998) Writing the winning dissertation: A step-by-
   step guide (Thousand Oaks: Corwin Press).
S. Johnston (1997) ‘Examining the examiners: Analysis of examin-
   ers’ reports on doctoral theses’, Studies in Higher Education, 22,
   333–47.
B. Kamler and P. Thomson (2006) Helping doctoral students write:
   Pedagogies for supervision (London: Routledge).
F. Kelly (2002) ‘In “that Borderland Between”: The ambivalence
   of A.S. Byatt’s fiction’, unpublished PhD thesis, University of
   Auckland.
H.B. Laurenson (2003) ‘Going up? Going down! The rise and fall
   of Auckland department stores, 1920–1960’, unpublished MA
   thesis, University of Auckland.
J.C. Lockhart (1997) ‘Towards a theory of the configuration and
   management of export-dependent land-based value systems:
   The case of New Zealand’, unpublished PhD thesis, University
   of Auckland.
R. Madigan, S. Johnson, and P. Linton. (1995) ‘The language of
   psychology: APA style as epistemology’, American Psychologist,
   6, 428–36.
D. Madsen (1988) Successful dissertations and theses (San Fran-
   cisco: Jossey-Bass).
E. Manalo and J. Trafford (2004) Thinking to thesis: A guide to grad-
   uate success at all levels (Auckland: Pearson Longman).
T. Maua-Hodges (2000) Ako Pai Ki Aitutaki: Transporting or weaving
   cultures, Research report of ﬁeld experiences to the Cook Islands
   (Wellington: Wellington College of Education).
N. Moore (2000) How to do research: The complete guide to design-
   ing and managing research projects (London: Library Associa-
   tion Publishing).
82   Bibliography


     G. Mullins and M. Kiley (2002) ‘“It’s a PhD, not a Nobel Prize”:
        How experienced examiners assess research theses’, Studies in
        Higher Education, 27, 369–86.
     R. Murray (2011) How to write a thesis, 3rd edn (Maidenhead: Open
        University Press).
     U. Nabobo (2003) ‘Indigenous Fijian educational ideas’ in K.H.
        Thaman (ed.), Educational ideas from Oceania: Selected read-
        ings, pp. 85–93 (Suva: University of the South Pacific).
     J.D. Novak (1998) Learning, creating and using knowledge: Concept
        maps as facilitative tools in schools and universities (Mahwah, NJ:
        Lawrence Erlbaum).
     L. Parker (2004) ‘Qualitative research’ in S. Burton and P. Stearn
        (eds), Surviving your thesis, pp. 159–77 (London: Routledge).
     S. Parry (2007) Disciplines and doctorates (Dordrecht: Springer).
     B.T. Pentland (1999) ‘Building process theory with narrative: From
        description to explanation’, Academy of Management Review,
        24, 711–24.
     E.M. Phillips and D.S. Pugh (2010) How to get a PhD: A handbook
        for students and their supervisors, 3rd edn (Philadelphia: Open
        University Press).
     E. Rankin (2001) The work of writing: Insights and strategies for
        academics and professionals (San Francisco: Jossey-Bass).
     L. Richardson (1990) Writing strategies: Reaching diverse audiences
        (Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Qualitative Methodology Series).
     K. Rountree and T. Laing (1996) Writing by degrees: A practical guide
        to writing theses and research papers (Auckland: Longman).
     K.E. Rudestam and R.R. Newton (2001) Surviving your dissertation:
        A comprehensive guide to content and process, 2nd edn (Thou-
        sand Oaks, CA: Sage).
     G. Rugg and M. Petre (2005) The unwritten rules of PhD research
        (Maidenhead: Open University Press).
     D. Sternberg (1981) How to complete and survive a doctoral disser-
        tation (New York: St. Martin’s Press).
     E. Stokes (1985) Ma  -ori research and development: A discussion pa-
        per (Hamilton: University of Waikato).
     S.R. Sturm (2008) ‘Chamier the Epicurean: The life and works of
        George Chamier (1842–1915)’, unpublished PhD thesis, Univer-
        sity of Auckland.
     D. Swetnam (2003) Writing your dissertation, 3rd edn (Oxford: How
        to Books).
     H. Sword (2007) The Writer’s Diet (Auckland: Pearson).
                                                       Bibliography      83


R.M. Thomas and D.L. Brubaker (2000) Theses and dissertations:
   A guide to planning, research, and writing (Westport, CT:
   Greenwood).
V. Trafford and S. Leshem (2002) ‘Starting at the end to undertake
   doctoral research: Predictable questions as stepping stones’,
   Higher Education Review, 34, 43–61.
University of Auckland (2011) Statute and Guidelines for the Degree
   of Doctor of Philosophy, University of Auckland.
L. Wallace (1996) ‘Tryst tropique: Pacific texts, modern sexuali-
   ties’, unpublished PhD thesis, University of Auckland.
I. Watt (1987) The rise of the novel: Studies in Defoe, Richardson and
   Fielding (London: Hogarth).
B. White (2011) Mapping your thesis: Techniques and rhetorics for
   masters’ and doctoral researchers (Camberwell: ACER).
J.M. White (2007) ‘Spirit of the passion: topoi of belief in the
   McCahon canon’, unpublished PhD thesis, University of
   Auckland.
J.M. Williams (1997) Style: Ten lessons in clarity and grace, 5th edn
   (New York: Longman).
G. Wisker (2008) The postgraduate research handbook: Succeed
   with your MA, MPhil, EdD and PhD, 2nd edn (Basingstoke: Pal-
   grave Macmillan).
F.A. Yates (1966) The art of memory (Aylesbury: Watson & Viney).
Index



axiology (values of thesis) x,           examiner(s) ix, xiii, xiv, 1, 2,
     3, 8, 9, 15, 30, 35, 40, 43,            5, 6, 9, 15, 17, 24–7, 29,
     63, 69, 70, 74, 78                      33, 42–3, 45–7, 50, 51–3,
                                             56, 63, 72, 75–6
back stage/front stage
      writing 12–14                      first-person pronoun 11
Battista, J. 69–70                       front stage/back stage
Becher, T. (and P. Trowler)   ix,               writing 12–14
      x, 25
Bologna Process 3                        genre of thesis x, 1, 3, 4, 5,
Brailsford, I. 65–6                            7–8, 12, 16, 24, 29, 38,
Brause, Rita 60, 68                            45–7, 58–9
                                         Glatthorn, A.A. 17, 24
Carter, S. (and M. Blumenstein)
      ix, 36, 44, 54, 62, 73
                                         hierarchy of ideas   7, 33
chapter length 1, 46
chronological order 28, 35,
                                         identity as author x, 3, 10, 30,
      38, 39, 48–9
                                               36, 38
Collins, F.L. 67
                                         interdisciplinary 3, 14, 43
concept map 20–1
                                         introduction of thesis 1, 6, 9,
contents page 4, 7, 16, 31–5,
                                               11, 17–19, 22–3, 25, 33,
      42, 51, 58, 67–8
                                               38, 43, 46–7, 50–1, 65–6,
criteria for doctorate xiv, 30
                                               73, 75–7
Davis, L. and S. McKay ix, 7,
     21–3, 39, 47, 65                    Johnston, S.   43, 53
defence work in writing 18
diagram 7, 16, 20–3, 25, 41–2,           Kamler, B. and P.
     44, 58                                    Thomson 9–10, 30
Dunleavy, P. viii, 1, 21, 26–8,          Kelly, Frances 63–4
     32, 46–7
                                         literature review 1, 3, 11, 17,
Eik-Nes, N.L. 12                                18, 19–20, 26–8, 38, 40,
epigram 37                                      65–6

                                    84
                                                              Index   85


Madigan, R., S. Johnson and       Rountree, K. and T. Laing
     P. Linton 12–13                  19–20, 34
Maua-Hodges, T. 70
methodology ix, x, xiv, 2–3,      soul (as identity
     7, 8, 17, 18, 19, 20, 25,           essence) 36–7
     28–30, 69, 71, 73, 75           see also identity
mind-mapping 7, 16, 20–1,         spatial conceptualization
     42, 65                              37–8, 40, 67
Mullins, G. and Kiley, M. 43,     Stokes, E. 71
     53                           style 9–15, 20, 31, 38, 59
Murray, R. 1, 17                  stylistic markers 13
                                  subheadings 13, 33, 34
new knowledge see                 survey of students (ours) viii,
    originality                          x, 13, 14, 35, 46, 55, 62,
new understanding see                    66–9, 73
    originality                   Swetnam, D. ix, 17

                                  themes (as structure
originality (new knowledge or
                                       criteria) xiii, 20, 22–4,
      understanding) ix, xi,
                                       34, 35, 38, 42, 57, 63, 74
      xiv, 3, 18, 24, 25, 26–9,
                                  theory of thesis 3, 4, 7–8, 9,
      46, 56, 57, 76, 78
                                       11, 17–18, 24, 27-28, 36,
                                       38, 40, 43, 46, 49, 57, 72
Parker, L. 57                     Thomas, R.M. and D.L.
Parry, S. 4, 34–5                      Brubaker 16, 18, 76
Pentland, B.T. 55, 57
performance-based theses xii      values of thesis   see axiology
Phillips E.M. and D.S. Pugh 1,
      27–8                        White, B. 72, 75
                                  White, J.M. 48–50
Rankin, E. 10, 74-75              Williams, J.M. 50
risk 3, 10, 18–19, 20, 25, 26,    Wisker, G. viii, x, 1, 19
     27, 33                       Writer’s Diet 53
