Katherine Firth has been developing research writers for more than 15 years 
and is currently Head of Lisa Bellear House, the University of Melbourne. 
A co-founder of the award-winning Thesis Bootcamp program, she main­
tains a writing blog, Research Degree Insiders. She is co-author of the books 
How to Fix Your Academic Writing Trouble (2018), Your PhD Survival Guide 
(2020) and Level Up Your Essays (2021).
Prioritizing wellbeing alongside academic development, this book provides 
practical advice to help students write well, and be well, during their PhD 
and throughout their career.
In this unique book, Katherine Firth offers expert guidance on developing 
a  writing practice and avoiding burnout, providing strategies and insights 
for  developing a sustainable writing career beyond the PhD thesis. The 
book  covers every stage of the academic writing process, from planning 
and researching, through getting words on the page, to the often unexpect­
edly time-consuming editing and polishing. Readers are reminded that writ­
ing a thesis is hard work, but it needn’t be damaging work. Each chapter 
includes a toolbox of strategies and techniques, such as meditations, writing 
exercises and tips to maintain physical wellbeing, that will help doctoral 
candidates start writing and keep writing, without sacrificing their health, 
wellbeing or relationships.
Relevant at any stage of the writing process, this book will help doctoral 
students and early career researchers to produce great words that people 
want to read, examiners want to pass and editors want to publish.
Writing Well and Being Well 
for Your PhD and Beyond
Wellbeing and Self-care in Higher Education
Editor: Narelle Lemon
Healthy Relationships in Higher Education
Promoting Wellbeing Across Academia
Edited by Narelle Lemon
Creating a Place for Self-care and Wellbeing in Higher Education
Finding Meaning Across Academia
Edited by Narelle Lemon
Creative Expression and Wellbeing in Higher Education
Making and Movement as Mindful Moments of Self-care
Edited by Narelle Lemon
Reflections on Valuing Wellbeing in Higher Education
Reforming our Acts of Self-care
Edited by Narelle Lemon
Practising Compassion in Higher Education
Caring for Self and Others Through Challenging Times
Edited by Narelle Lemon, Heidi Harju-Luukkainen and Susanne Garvis
Women Practicing Resilience, Self-care and Wellbeing in Academia
International Stories from Lived Experience
Edited by Ida Fatimawati Adi Badiozaman, Voon Mung Ling and 
Kiran Sandhu
Writing Well and Being Well for Your PhD and Beyond
How to Cultivate a Strong and Sustainable Writing Practice for Life
Katherine Firth
For more information about this series, please visit: www.routledge.com/
Wellbeing-and-Self-care-in-Higher-Education/book-series/WSCHE
Writing Well and 
Being Well for Your 
PhD and Beyond
How to Cultivate a Strong and 
Sustainable Writing Practice for Life
Katherine Firth
Designed cover image: © Getty Images
First published 2024
by Routledge
4 Park Square, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4RN
and by Routledge
605 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10158
Routledge is an imprint of the Taylor & Francis Group, an informa business
© 2024 Katherine Firth
The right of Katherine Firth to be identified as author of this work has been 
asserted in accordance with sections 77 and 78 of the Copyright, Designs 
and Patents Act 1988.
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reprinted or reproduced or 
utilised in any form or by any electronic, mechanical, or other means, now 
known or hereafter invented, including photocopying and recording, or in 
any information storage or retrieval system, without permission in writing 
from the publishers.
Trademark notice: Product or corporate names may be trademarks or 
registered trademarks, and are used only for identification and explanation 
without intent to infringe.
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Names: Firth, Katherine, 1979- author. 
Title: Writing well and being well for your PhD and beyond : how to 
cultivate a strong and sustainable writing practice for life / Katherine Firth. 
Description: Abingdon, Oxon ; New York, NY : Routledge, 2024. | Series: 
Wellbeing and self-care in higher education | Includes bibliographical 
references and index. | 
Identifiers: LCCN 2023013663 (print) | LCCN 2023013664 (ebook) | ISBN 
9781032310824 (hardback) | ISBN 9781032310817 (paperback) | ISBN 
9781003307945 (ebook) 
Subjects: LCSH: Academic writing. | Doctoral students. | Dissertations, 
Academic. 
Classification: LCC LB2369 .F52 2021 (print) | LCC LB2369 (ebook) | DDC 
808.02--dc23/eng/20230517 
LC record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2023013663
LC ebook record available at https://lccn.loc.gov/2023013664
ISBN: 978-1-032-31082-4 (hbk)
ISBN: 978-1-032-31081-7 (pbk)
ISBN: 978-1-003-30794-5 (ebk)
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945
Typeset in Optima
by SPi Technologies India Pvt Ltd (Straive)
This book is dedicated to the writer in your life, the writer who is you. 
Thank you for taking time and energy to write well and be well.
vii
List of illustrations	
xi
Series preface	
xii
A note from the series editor	
xvi
Acknowledgements	
xviii
Introduction	
1
	I.1	 Bringing your whole self to the desk	
2
	
I.1.1	 Writing with your strengths	
5
	
I.1.2	 So what actually is writing?	
6
	I.2	 Who is doing the writing?	
10
	
I.2.1	 My story	
10
	
I.2.2	 Your story	
12
	
I.2.3	 It takes a village	
12
	I.3	 What does ‘being well’ mean?	
13
	I.3.1	‘But I’m no good at meditation!’	
14
	I.3.2	‘But I’m no good at exercise!’	
15
	I.4	 How to use this book	
16
	I.5	 Wellbeing isn’t yet another thing to add to your day	
18
	1	
Reading and thinking: Also part of the writing process	
21
	1.1	 A mindfulness practice for thinking: Practising focus	
22
	1.2	 A physical wellbeing practice for thinking: 
A walking practice	
24
	1.3	 How to read and think: Different strategies	
26
	1.3.1	 Focused versus diffuse mode thinking	
27
	1.3.2	 Pre-research reading	
29
Contents
viii
Contents
	1.3.3	 Reading the academic literature flexibly and with 
confidence
31
	1.3.4	 Taking notes	
35
	1.3.5	 Generous reading strategies	
38
	1.3.6	 Put aside time to just think	
41
	1.3.7	 Journaling	
43
A reflection practice for reading and thinking: Strengths and 
weaknesses	
46
	2	
Planning: Getting to where you want to go	
47
	2.1	 A mindfulness practice for planning: Visualizing your goals	
48
	2.2	 A physical practice for planning: Stepping yourself 
through your writing plan	
49
	2.3	 Time and task management	
51
	2.3.1	 Setting your own time and tasks	
51
	2.3.2	 Writing time ‘spreaders’ and ‘stackers’	
55
	2.3.3	 Tracking your progress with ‘done lists’	
59
	2.3.4	 Breaking down a project into smaller steps	
61
	2.4	 Planning what you are going to write	
65
	2.4.1	 Dialogical planning	
66
	2.4.2	 Narrative plans	
68
	2.4.3	 Visual plans	
71
Reflection practice for planning: Likes and dislikes	
74
	3	
Writing: Getting the words onto the page	
75
	3.1	 A mindfulness practice for writing: ‘The story of my thesis’	
76
	3.2	 A physical wellbeing practice for writing: Finding the perfect 
set-up to write, for now	
78
	3.3	 How to write: Different strategies	
79
	3.3.1	 Some version of the terrible first draft	
80
	3.3.2	 Your writing software can support your wellbeing	
82
	3.3.3	 Writing with others	
84
Reflection practice for writing: How to value ‘just writing’	
87
	4	
Recharging: Using rest to help you write	
88
	4.1	 A mindfulness practice for recharging: ‘Seeing the forest 
for the trees’	
88
	4.2	 A physical well-being practice for recharging: Mindful 
washing up	
90
Contents
ix
	4.3	 Recharging: Different strategies	
92
	4.3.1	 The critical distance break	
92
	4.3.2	 Make space to recharge by saying ‘no’	
95
	4.3.3	 Do you need a nap?	
98
	4.3.4	 Why researchers should have hobbies	
99
	4.3.5	 Cleaning your workspace/cleaning your 
headspace
101
	4.3.6	 Getting back into writing after a break	
103
Reflective practice for recharging: Transition traditions	
108
	5	
Editing: Getting your thesis into shape	
109
	5.1	 A mindfulness practice for editing: Imagining your 
ideal reader	
110
	5.2	 A physical wellbeing practice for editing: Three breathing 
exercises before you start editing	
112
	5.3	 How to edit: Different strategies	
115
	5.3.1	 Be your own best critic	
116
	5.3.2	 How to create a logical structure	
118
	5.3.3	 Editing paragraphs to be steps in your argument
122
	5.3.4	 Why your filing system matters for structural editing
125
	5.3.5	 Putting the whole draft together	
128
Reflective practice for editing: The opposite of writing	
132
	6	
Polishing: Making your thesis shine	
133
	6.1	 A mindfulness practice for polishing: Putting your copy 
editor hat on	
134
	6.2	 A physical wellbeing practice for polishing: 
Five ways to stretch	
135
	6.3	 How to polish: Different strategies	
138
	6.3.1	 Defamiliarizing techniques so you can see your 
work again
139
	6.3.2	 Style guides	
141
	6.3.3	 Short or long sentences?	
145
	6.3.4	 Writing in a second language	
148
Reflective practice for polishing: Soothing or gritty?	
151
	7	
Rewriting: Addressing feedback from yourself and others	
152
	7.1	 A mindfulness practice for rewriting: A gratitude 
practice for your writing	
153
x
Contents
	7.2	 A physical wellbeing practice for rewriting: Don’t 
keep sitting in the same old chair	
155
	7.3	 How to rewrite: Different strategies	
156
	7.3.1	 Understanding feedback	
157
	7.3.2	 Dealing with failures	
160
	7.3.3	 Dealing with perfectionism	
162
	7.3.4	 Writing towards hope: Can writing be healing?	
165
Reflective practice for rewriting: What motivates you?	
169
	8	
Conclusion: Writing well is not the opposite of being well	
170
	8.1	 A mindfulness practice for writing: A loving 
kindness meditation for your writing	
171
	8.2	 A physical wellbeing practice for writing: 
Celebration dance party	
173
	8.3	 Moving forward with writing into your future	
174
	8.3.1	 Writing a thesis is hard work, but it needn’t 
be damaging work
174
	8.3.2	 Writing well is something we do together	
176
Reflection practice: Beyond the book	
177
Index
178
xi
Figures
I.1	 The writing cycle	
7
1.1	 My mindfulness rubber duck	
23
1.2	 The Cornell method of note taking adapted for researchers	
38
2.1	 Calendar writing tracker	
60
2.2	 Using sticky notes to plan	
72
3.1	 Non-human writing companions also count. This is Jellycat 
‘helping’ me edit this book	
86
4.1	 The very best bento box I ever had	
96
4.2	 The loaf I baked after rescuing my sourdough starter	
105
5.1	 My structural edits for Section 5.3.3	
131
6.1	 Screenshot of MS Word ‘Review’ pane with the ‘Read Aloud’ 
button
140
Tables
2.1	 Identify your own working pattern	
52
5.1	 Logical fallacy: Wrong assumptions	
120
5.2	 Logical fallacy: Over-generalization	
120
5.3	 Logical fallacy: Missing a step in the argument	
121
Illustrations
xii
As academics, scholars, staff and colleagues working in the context of uni­
versities in the contemporary climate we are often challenged with where we 
place our own wellbeing. It is not uncommon to hear about burnout, stress, 
anxiety, pressures with workload, having too many balls in the air, toxic cul­
tures, increasing demands, isolation, and feeling distressed (Berg and Seeber 
2016; Lemon and McDonough 2018; Mountz et al. 2015). The reality is that 
universities are stressful places (Beer et al. 2015; Cranton and Taylor 2012; 
Kasworm and Bowles 2012; Mountz et al. 2015; Ryan 2013; Sullivan and 
Weissner 2010; Wang and Cranton 2012). McNaughton and Billot (2016) 
argue that the “deeply personal effects of changing roles, expectations and 
demands” (p. 646) have been downplayed and that academics and staff 
engage in constant reconstruction of their identities and work practices. It 
is important to acknowledge this, as much as it is to acknowledge the need 
to place wellbeing and self-care at the forefront of these lived experiences 
and situations.
Wellbeing can be approached at multiple levels including micro and 
macro. In placing wellbeing at the heart of the higher education workplace, 
self-care becomes an imperative both individually and systemically (Berg 
and Seeber 2016; Lemon and McDonough 2018). Self-care is most com­
monly oriented towards individual action to monitor and ensure personal 
wellbeing, however it is also a collective act. There is a plethora of different 
terms that are in action to describe how one approaches their wellbeing 
holistically (Godfrey et al. 2011). With different terminology comes different 
ways self-care is understood. For this collection, self-care is understood 
as “the actions that individuals take for themselves, on behalf of and with 
others in order to develop, protect, maintain and improve their health, 
Series preface
Series preface
xiii
wellbeing or wellness” (Self Care Forum 2019, para. 1). It covers a spectrum 
of health-related (emotional, physical, and/or spiritual) actions, including 
prevention, promotion and treatment, while aiming to encourage individuals 
to take personal responsibility for their health and to advocate for themselves 
and others in accessing resources and care (Knapik and Laverty 2018). Self-
love, -compassion, -awareness and -regulation are significant elements of 
self-care. But what does this look like for those working in higher education? 
In this book series authors respond to the questions: What do you do for self-
care? How do you position wellbeing as part of your role in academia?
In thinking about these questions’ authors are invited to critically dis­
cuss and respond to inspiration sparked by one or more of the following 
questions:
	•	 How do we bring self-regulation to how we approach our work?
	•	 How do we create a compassionate workplace in academia?
	•	 What does it mean for our work when we are aware and enact self-
compassion?
	•	 What awareness has occurred that has disrupted the way we approach 
work?
	•	 Where do mindful intentions sit?
	•	 How do we shift the rhetoric of “this is how it has always been” in relation 
to over working, and indiscretions between workload and approaches to 
workload?
	•	 How do we counteract the traditional narrative of over work?
	•	 How do we create and sustain a healthier approach?
	•	 How can we empower the “I” and “we” as we navigate self-care as a part 
of who we are as academics?
	•	 How can we promote a curiosity about how we approach self-care?
	•	 What changes do we need to make?
	•	 How can we approach self-care with energy and promote shifts in how 
we work individually, collectively and systemically?
The purpose of this book series is to:
	•	 Place academic wellbeing and self-care at the heart of discussions 
around working in higher education.
	•	 Provide a diverse range of strategies for how to put in place wellbeing 
and self-care approaches as an academic.
xiv
Series preface
	•	 Provide a narrative connection point for readers from a variety of back­
grounds in academia.
	•	 Highlight lived experiences and honour the voice of those working in 
higher education.
	•	 Provide a visual narrative that supports connection to authors’ lived 
experience(s).
	•	 Contribute to the conversation on ways that wellbeing and self-care can 
be positioned in the work that those working in higher education do.
	•	 Highlight new ways of working in higher education that disrupt current 
tensions that neglect wellbeing.
References
LE Beer, K Rodriguez, C Taylor, N Martinez-Jones, J Griffin, TR Smith, M Lamar 
and R  Anaya, ‘Awareness, Integration and Interconnectedness’, Journal of 
Transformative Education, 13:2, 161–185. 2015.
M Berg and BK Seeber, The Slow Professor: Challenging the Culture of Speed in the 
Academy. University of Toronto Press, 2016.
P Cranton and EW Taylor, ‘Transformative Learning Theory: Seeking a more Unified 
Theory’, in EW Taylor and P Cranton, editor, The Handbook of Transformative 
Learning, pp. 3–20. Jossey-Bass, 2012.
CM Godfrey, MB Harrison, R Lysaght, M Lamb, ID Graham and P Oakley, ‘The 
Experience of Self-Care: A Systematic Review’, JBI Library of Systematic Reviews 
8:34, 1351–1460. 2011. http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27819888
N Lemon and S McDonough, editors, Mindfulness in the Academy: Practices and 
Perspectives from Scholars. Springer, 2018.
C Kasworm and T Bowles, ‘Fostering Transformative Learning in Higher Education 
Settings’, In E Taylor and P Cranton, editors, The Handbook of Transformative 
Learning, pp. 388–407. Sage, 2012.
K Knapik and A Laverty, ‘Self-Care Individual, Relational, and Political Sensibilities’, 
in MA Henning, CU Krägeloh, R Dryer, F Moir, DR Billington and AG Hill, editors. 
Wellbeing in Higher Education: Cultivating a Healthy Lifestyle Among Faculty and 
Students. Routledge, 2018.
S M McNaughton and J Billot, ‘Negotiating Academic Teacher Identity Shifts During 
Higher Education Contextual Change’, Teaching in Higher Education 21:6, 644–
658. 2016.
A Mountz, A Bonds, B Mansfield, J Loyd, J Hyndman and M Watton-Roberts, ‘For 
Slow Scholarship: A Feminist Politics of Resistance Through Collective Action 
in the Neoliberal University’, ACME: An International E-Journal of Critical 
Geographies 14:4, 1235–1259. 2015.
Series preface
xv
M Ryan, ‘The Pedagogical Balancing Act: Teaching Reflection in Higher Education’, 
Teaching in Higher Education 18, 144–155. 2013.
Self Care Forum. Self Care Forum: Home. 2019. http://www.selfcareforum.org/
LG Sullivan and CA Weissner, ‘Learning To Be Reflective Leaders: A Case Study from 
the NCCHC Hispanic Leadership Fellows Program’, in DL Wallin, editor, Special 
issue: Leadership in an Era of Change. New Directions for Community Colleges, 
No. 149, pp. 41–50. Jossey-Bass, 2010.
VC Wang and P Cranton, ‘Promoting and Implementing Self-Directed Learning 
(SDL): An Effective Adult Education Model’, International Journal of Adult Voca­
tional Education and Technology 3, 16–25. 2012.
xvi
There is an awareness that comes with writing well and being well. This 
awareness has us cultivating a consciousness that situates both the acts of 
writing well and being well together. It sounds obvious but, for many of us, 
it is not. Too often we forget, skip (intentionally or by mistake), rush, not 
value or even not know that we needed to value our wellbeing. Phew, I’m 
exhausted! Exhausted in a good way, as this is appreciating the complexity 
that comes when we are mindfully present in our approach to writing while 
holistically valuing our heart, mind, body, and spirit. With this awareness 
comes an enabling that supports the creation of new words on a page and a 
cultivation of renewed ways of attending to the richness of doing everything 
we need to craft, process, revise, edit and press send for submission and 
appreciate the journey.
I love so much about this book. It is a book I wish I had had when I began 
my journey into research, writing, and the academy. It is personable, practi­
cal and brings together the theory in a way that resonates with us quickly. 
What I especially love about this book, is from the very beginning a perusal 
of the contents has us wanting to dip in and out with a nodding of our heads 
of ‘oh yes, I need that’, ‘tell me more …’, or ‘I’m getting ready to sticky-note 
and underline this section’. We are invited to challenge our guilt or things 
that embarrass us as we engage with the PhD journey in a gentle way that 
supports growth. Advice is given to inspire, not to judge or tell you how it 
must be done. We are guided through a whole cycle of formulating ideas, 
drafting, writing, editing, polishing, submitting, and resubmitting BUT most 
importantly how to rest and move at the same time. An intentionality is 
set for us as we read this book to embody the interconnecting relation­
ship between writing and wellness. An intention is set that wellbeing and 
A note from the 
series editor
A note from the series editor
xvii
self-care are a part of our writing practice, and with this comes a renewed 
attitude that we can be better writers and better researchers and thus feel 
better as writers and researchers.
I reflect upon the writing of Elizabeth Gilbert in the book Big Magic, 
which I paraphrase here: spirituality-minded people will often have an 
awareness around what the universe grants us, and when the outcome isn’t 
what we had thought or wanted, it is the universe letting us know of the 
outcome we actually needed. This learning moment comes with an aware­
ness and open-mindedness that facilitates a curiosity in what might be. 
I think about this book series like messages from the universe that we didn’t 
know we needed to know. Reading and engaging with the various books 
and over a hundred authors to date, opens up the opportunity to shift, reso­
nate, sigh with relief that I am not alone, interrupt, build our capacity to talk 
about wellbeing and, most importantly, think and put into action ways we 
can grow, protect and maintain our self-care. Most significantly for me as 
the series editor, the books published are about interrupting ways of doing 
things, shifting conversations from behind closed doors to no longer being 
secrets but to be a part of who we are and what we do. When I approached 
Katherine to write this book, we talked at length about holistically approach­
ing writing, and I think you will agree with me, she has responded to this 
vision in a way that allows us all to learn about how to write well, and be 
well, for writing in ways that are just right for right now in our universe.
I hope you enjoy this book and that you pass on your learnings with your 
networks.
Professor Narelle Lemon
Series Editor,
January 2023
xviii
To the people in my writing communities who have contributed to this book, 
including my co-authors Andreas Loewe, Inger Mewburn, Shaun Lehmann, 
Peta Freestone, Liam Connell; to my writing team, particularly Jessamy 
Gleeson and Emma Curtin; to my wonderful series editor Narelle Lemon 
and the generous reviewers who helped make this book better; to Vilija 
Stephens and the Routledge team who turned my manuscript into a book. 
This book was written in wellbeing communities: I acknowledge my yoga 
teacher trainers Mei Lai Swan, Noah Mazé, Rocky Heron and Nichol Chase; 
people who helped keep me moving, particularly Amanda Barbosa; to read­
ing group convenors, including Fi Belcher, Jeanette Fyffe, Tai Peseta, Juliet 
Lum and Susan Mowbray; Tana Ivanka, who taught me to bind my own 
research journal; and for people who shared their expertise and experience 
with me to help make this book more inclusive, including Lauren Pikó, 
Zara Bain, Meleesha Bardolia, Miranda Gronow, Tess Ryan and Ana Ximena 
Torres; and to Jellycat, who sat on my desk, and on the many drafts of this 
book, and purred loudly.
Acknowledgements
1
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-1
Introduction
The greatest freedom to build a writing life that suits you often happens at 
exactly the same time that you feel most uncertain: starting a new research 
degree or moving from research into ‘writing up’. As someone who regu­
larly talks to researchers in these situations, I hear over and over again that 
students have amazing productivity hacks and strategies that work really 
well for them, in their bodies, minds, energy and life. But they feel embar­
rassed or guilty about putting them into practice because other people have 
it harder, or they have been told there is a correct way to be productive. They 
feel they must be doing it wrong if they don’t spend 9–5 at a desk in strict 
‘Pomodoro’ time boxes, then an hour at the gym. Or they feel guilty that 
they ‘only’ worked 9–5, or any other version of why they are doing it wrong 
and should feel bad.
There is no right way to write, but many good ways. This book celebrates 
holistic, effective strategies. It also highlights the evidence-based structures 
and systems that are most likely to support wellbeing. In this book, I will 
share the strategies that have worked for me to stay as well as possible while 
writing. I’ll also share the techniques of students and colleagues with whom 
I’ve worked, and the many thousands of students and writers covered in the 
research literature who tell similar stories.
You may already have strategies that help you manage the requirements 
and challenges of writing a PhD thesis, starting from your own place with 
your own body, family life, brain chemistry, research field, academic back­
ground or personality style. This book gives you permission and encourage­
ment (and maybe a few pointers to explore) to set up a writing practice that 
you can live with and work with.
2
Introduction
Writing is not just getting words on a page or spelling them right. Writing 
is a complex, multi-stage, iterative process, and each stage has different 
requirements and challenges. All my writing books have had a version of the 
writing cycle in them—but this book focuses on the whole cycle. Each chap­
ter includes a toolbox of strategies, mindsets, techniques and approaches to 
help you, as doctoral candidates, start writing and keep writing, in a way 
that supports your body, heart and mind to be well, and for you to write 
good words for a PhD that will pass.
I.1  Bringing your whole self to the desk
When you are writing, you often have the chance to decide when and where 
you will work. Do you like to get up before dawn? Work 9–5? Stay up till 
midnight? You can do that. Do you prefer to handwrite, type into a com­
puter, or dictate your first draft into a phone? You can do that. Do you like 
to work in short bursts, or long stretches? Do you like music playing or total 
silence? Do you like to work with others or on your own? You can do that. 
What’s more, you can do that differently across each day or for different 
stages of the project.
There are already lots of excellent books about how to write a thesis and 
lots of outstanding books about wellbeing, and I’ll recommend my favour­
ites. Sometimes PhD writing books have short sections about wellbeing, as 
my last two doctoral writing books do, with wellbeing presented as the 
opposite of writing: writing is hard, solitary and painful; wellbeing is soft, 
social and healing. Wellbeing is something you have to do on top of your 
writing, to ‘balance’ it all out. This book encourages you to challenge that 
mindset.
I was taught to expect writing to be painful, the ‘suffering artist’ trope. 
I also ingested a Platonic idea that the mind was separate from the body, and 
to live the ‘life of the mind’ meant to ignore my physical and emotional 
needs as much as possible. Many other people in modern educational sys­
tems have been taught the same (Firth 2021, p. 115). And yet, when I started 
to find space for my feelings, both emotional and physical, my writing got 
more efficient and more enjoyable.
So this book is about trying something different. In this book, each of the 
tools for wellbeing is also a writing tool, and every tool for writing is also a 
wellbeing tool. These are some ways to write that are all about being well, 
Introduction
3
but also about writing well. The tools I give you in this book will help you to 
be a great writer. After 20 years of personal experience and advising stu­
dents, I have found that the wellbeing tools don’t require any sacrifices in 
terms of writing quality, in fact, they often improve the writing quality. 
Writing better and being better are not in competition, they are synergistic.
Of course, there are other things you need to be doing to be well that are 
beyond writing, and I encourage you to do that. Have hobbies because they 
are fun, catch up with people because you like them, see your doctor or 
therapist for your health, move and eat and rest because that makes you feel 
good. Those are beyond the scope of this book, but that doesn’t mean I don’t 
think they matter.
It’s also worth pointing out that things that benefit your wellbeing aren’t 
always easy or comfortable. Some days the writing will be hard, uncomfort­
able or tiring—that’s not necessarily a sign that the writing is negatively 
impacting your wellbeing. In my experience, therapy, doctor’s appoint­
ments, exercise and self-reflection are also sometimes hard, uncomfortable 
or tiring, but the end result is being better in body, mind or heart.
Writing is still my job, and I know that I regularly need to write excellent 
words, and lots of them, fast. I often tackle difficult and painful material, or 
material that could hurt other people if I handle it clumsily. I spend hours at 
my computer and in the library. None of us is forced to write these big chal­
lenging academic texts—there are lots of other pathways to learn about the 
world and make it a better place! But we have chosen a life where writing is 
a big part of what we do, and many of us aspire to careers where writing 
remains an important aspect of our work. So this is a book about how to 
thrive while writing, how to thrive as you plan, draft, edit and revise your 
texts. The book assumes that you are currently doing a PhD and that you 
might keep writing after you graduate.
This book starts each chapter with a mindfulness exercise to get us into a 
good headspace. From talking to a colleague, to success visualization, to 
breathing exercises, we explore different modes of being mindful.
Next, we’ll think about the body that is doing the writing. Our brain is not 
some separate thing in a jar, it’s a major organ of our body, and needs to 
have enough oxygen, hydration, nutrition, and rest to function properly. It 
can be easy to forget that our hands, neck, eyes, back and legs are part of 
our writing process too … or at least to ignore them until they start hurting. 
I’ll suggest a range of body practices, from walking or doing the washing up 
to a good ergonomic set-up.
4
Introduction
Third, there are a series of potential tools to try out for making your writ­
ing better, making it more efficient to get writing done, or improving the 
quality of your writing so people will pass it and publish it. Each of these 
tools is practical and life-changing. I use them myself, and students in my 
workshops come back later to tell me which technique was a game changer 
for them. Perhaps some will be a game changer for you.
Finally, bring your own existing wellbeing practices and preferences into 
how you use this book. You might already have a particular piece of music, or 
an image, or another ritual to get you into the zone. If you have a physio or per­
sonal trainer who has suggested some moves, use those. Maybe there are tools 
from the many other wonderful writing books that you prefer to the ones I’ve 
listed here. Use them! This book gives you joyful permission to find the struc­
ture inspiring and then build your own practice. But if you would like to follow 
some guidelines, there will be step-by-step instructions all the way through.
Why you are writing and how you are getting it done will be influenced 
by your preferences. Writing has technical aspects, sure. You need skills, 
and training. And you need to be organized and disciplined about keeping 
up with deadlines and juggling projects. To gain a PhD, you have to write a 
lot of excellent, highly polished, rigorous words in a challenging deadline.
But you also bring your weird, inner, non-rational self to the desk when 
you write. The inner self that has views about what music you can listen to, 
or which writing rituals you need to do before typing a word. There are good 
reasons why you might like what you like, but a lot of it is just personal pref­
erence, and that is totally a great reason to take it seriously.
It’s no one’s business how you get your drafts done, as long as you meet 
deadlines and have polished up your work to be presentable at the end. You 
are enough, your writing will be enough.
Notes
Katherine Firth, ‘5 Ways Hogwarts Helps Us Understand Foucault’s ‘Docile 
Bodies’’, in Naomi Barnes and Alison Bedford, editors, Unlocking Social 
Theory with Popular Culture. Critical Studies of Education, pp. 113–124. 
Springer, 2021.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/07/08/the-morality-of-writing-well/ 
and https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/06/10/the-writing-oxygen-and-
other-tales-from-inside-a-writing-house/
Introduction
5
I.1.1  Writing with your strengths
I recently ran a writing retreat for early career researchers, and I was sur­
prised at how many of them were privately worried that leaning into their 
strengths and preferences was somehow cheating at writing. Writing in the 
way you find easiest is not cheating. Using the support of a writing group 
or retreat to help you get over the hard bit is not cheating. Working with 
co-authors is not cheating. (Plagiarism is cheating, everything else is valid 
writing.) At the same time, nothing makes research writing truly easy. You 
are creating new knowledge. You are making the unknowable knowable. 
However efficient or experienced you get, you’ll never hack your way to 
making it effortless. It will always take time.
You should write however works best for you. Morning or night. Together 
or alone. Voice to text, overwrite, bullet point, edit. Start at the start or the 
end or the middle. It only matters that you do start. People are experts in 
themselves. You know what works for you. Own it. Use it. You know what 
doesn’t work for you. Don’t use that! It doesn’t matter if it works for other 
people, you do you!
It’s helpful iif you also bring this attitude to your co-authors and supervi­
sors. If one supervisor loves line edits and another prefers big-picture think­
ing, then lean into those strengths for different stages of your work. If you 
are co-authoring a paper, find out who doesn’t mind bashing out a first draft 
and who loves crafting the footnotes, and give people the jobs they like 
doing.
At the same time, you need to know what is involved at every stage of the 
writing process. When you learn more skills or get more experience, some 
tasks that currently seem impossible will become things you are regularly 
able to do. PhD candidates love taking on a challenge and learning new 
things, and you can do that for writing as well as your research.
Keep an eye on the difference between persisting when it’s challenging 
and pushing through to hurting yourself. Sometimes when you think you 
are done for the day, you can squeeze out another couple of hours of work 
if you have a nap or join a writing group or go for a walk or have a dead­
line. It’s worth trying. But usually it’s good to stop when you still have 
some energy in the tank (Hemingway 1998, pp. 216–217). Make a note of 
what you know you need to do next, and then give yourself permission to 
take a break. It’s more important that you come back tomorrow, and the 
day after.
6
Introduction
Notes
Ernest Hemingway, By-Line: Selected Articles and Dispatches of Four 
Decades. Edited by William White. Scribner, 1998.
I.1.2  So what actually is writing?
You’ve been writing since you were in primary school, and you write every 
day: emails, grocery lists, text messages, forms. These kinds of writing are 
generally short and straightforward, and all the multifactorial tasks involved 
in getting something written can be mixed in together, and you don’t have 
to reflect too much about what you are doing.
Writing a doctoral thesis is different. A thesis is tens of thousands of words, 
takes years, and explains new and complex information. I might read over a 
text message once before hitting ‘send’, but I’d expect to redraft a thesis 
chapter three or more times before even sharing it with a supervisor.
It’s useful to identify the various tasks involved in writing, and then sepa­
rate them out into distinct focused actions to reduce the costs of ‘task switch­
ing’. Research tells us that humans don’t multitask, they just switch quickly 
between tasks. For complex work that requires focus (like research and writ­
ing), there is a cost of ‘attention residue’, a lag of a couple of minutes as our 
brains detach from the last job and get into the groove of the new job (Leroy 
2009; Mark et al. 2008). So it is more effective to identify one job and stick 
to it for a time (perhaps 25 minutes) and then take a break (of perhaps five 
minutes) before attempting a different task.
For example, a few years ago, I was working on an article and I only had 
a couple of hours a week to get it done. I know that it takes me about half an 
hour to read an article, and a few minutes to make a writing plan from that 
reading. So on Monday afternoon, I would stay back at work for an hour and 
try to read two articles and plan what I would write. On Thursday mornings, 
I ran a ‘Shut Up and Write’ writing group that went for an hour, so I would try 
to write a section of the article. If I have done my reading, thinking and plan­
ning ahead of time, I know I can push out about 400–600 first-draft words 
per Pomodoro. (These are my numbers, you might be faster or slower, it 
doesn’t matter, only you know yourself and can plan for your own working 
pace.)
Introduction
7
In this case, reading and planning ahead of time was helpful for being 
as productive as possible on Thursday mornings. But I also benefitted 
from the 60 hours between the reading and the writing. In that time, I was 
also thinking about what I had read and what I planned to write. I might 
focus on a tricky point I wasn’t sure how to make and rehearse it in my 
head. Or I might just have it vaguely in the back of my mind where it was 
turning over. This space is essential in any conceptualization of the writ­
ing process.
At the pace I write first drafts, you can be sure that they aren’t very tidy. 
I then look at the entire article or chapter and make sure the structure and 
argument are clear and logical. And then I go through to make sure I’ve caught 
all the spelling, grammar and punctuation errors, smoothed out the writing, 
selected the best words. Finally, I’ll get a colleague to read it over and give me 
feedback, which usually leads to some rewrites before submitting to my 
editor.
So what are the steps in the writing process? Figure I.1 shows an expan­
sion of a cycle that I have included in previous books, and is now, I think, 
Figure I.1  The writing cycle
8
Introduction
closer to how I explain the cycle when I’m teaching it. Each stage of the 
cycle is covered in a section of this book, so if you identify a section that you 
find challenging, you can jump straight to that part of the book for resources. 
Or you can read the whole book and get a sense of every part of the cycle.
Read and think: Writing starts with reading and thinking, and many errors 
in writing are caused by issues at the reading and thinking stage. If you don’t 
understand a concept, know the vocabulary, or have a logical approach, 
you won’t have good writing. Value the time you spend reading and think­
ing, and optimize your strategies to help you take those insights into your 
writing.
Plan: Planning encompasses both the practical time and task manage­
ment aspects of finding time to write, and map out what moves you will be 
making in your writing. If you find that a list of bullet points and one desig­
nated writing day a week isn’t helping you to meet your goals, you might 
find some of the strategies in this section helpful.
Write: Writing is when you start with a blank page and put words onto 
it. It doesn’t matter if you do that with a pen, a keyboard, your voice, or 
any other technique. It only matters that you turn the invisible thoughts 
in your head into academic prose so they can be read. This is the stage 
many people find to be the most challenging. Sometimes they try to 
extend the planning for long enough to jump straight into the editing 
stage, but unfortunately, you really do need to write something before 
you can edit it!
Edit: Structural editing is a big-picture task. Editing looks at the writing you 
have done and checks that it is logical, proportional, ordered. When you are 
editing, you are probably working at the paragraph or section level, checking 
each paragraph belongs in the draft, and that it is in the right sequence. Are 
there gaps? Do you have lots of words for important points, and a few words 
for incidental points? Does the foundational stuff come first?
Polish: In creative writing, polishing has two stages: a ‘line edit’ and a 
‘copy edit’. Line edits work at the sentence level, making each sentence well 
crafted. Copy edits are at the word level, identifying spelling, grammar and 
punctuation errors, and correcting other stylistic details. In academic writ­
ing, authors tend to do both of these actions at once, since the writing needs 
to be functional but not beautiful. The craft of academic writing is in its 
accuracy, not in its poetry.
Introduction
9
Review and rewrite: The first time around the writing cycle, you will do 
the review and rewrite stage yourself. You read over everything you have 
done, but this time as a reader. Does this make sense? Have you covered 
everything that needs to be included? You will typically find that you need 
to go back and read a few more articles, plan a new section, write that sec­
tion, and rewrite other sections. You will need to check that the structure is 
still coherent, and then go over it to catch any stray spelling errors and/or 
unformatted footnotes.
After reviewing and rewriting once or twice, though, this stage will 
include other readers. Your supervisor will review your work and give you 
feedback. Usually that involves more research, further thinking, planning 
and writing or rewriting more material, and then editing and polishing it 
before resubmitting it for another review.
Recharge and rest: You’ll notice there is a gap between each arrow in the 
writing cycle. That’s on purpose. Taking a break between the tasks, to 
recharge and rest, has both wellbeing and cognitive benefits.
Some breaks are about looking after body and soul: maybe you’ll refill 
your water bottle, go to a yoga class, chat to a colleague, or try to get a full 
night’s sleep. This is about preventing hunger, dehydration, back pain, tired­
ness or boredom from derailing your writing productivity.
But you are also locking in time for your brain to reflect: put things on the 
back burner, to have a ‘critical distance break’, to sleep on the problem, to 
walk far enough away from the project to be able to ‘see the forest for the 
trees’. Any effective writing process needs to have breaks planned to allow 
for critical distance, task switching, and diffuse thinking.
Thinking about writing as a series of tasks can help us focus on the job at 
hand and not try to multitask. It also helps us to bring our specific strengths 
and skills to each of these different stages.
At the beginning of a research project, each stage might reflect weeks 
or months of work. At other times, each stage might only represent a few 
minutes of work as we go over things one last time. In the middle, we might 
find ourselves in helpful loops. For example, you might choose to write up 
a 500-word chunk of text, structurally edit it, polish it up, and then go back 
for another 500-word chunk. Once you can see what is involved in actually 
writing, you can start to intentionally assemble a practice that works for you 
and for your project.
10
Introduction
Notes
Sophie Leroy, ‘Why Is it So Hard to Do My Work? The Challenge of Attention 
Residue When Switching Between Work Tasks’, Organizational Behavior 
and Human Decision Processes, 109:2, 168–181. 2009.
Gloria Mark, Daniela Gudith and Ulrich Klocke, ‘The Cost of Interrupted 
Work: More Speed and Stress’, in Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference 
on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 107–110. 2008.
The writing cycle has previously been discussed in a simpler form in
Inger Mewburn, Katherine Firth and Shaun Lehmann, How to Fix Your 
Academic Writing Trouble: A Practical Guide, p. 92. Open University 
Press, 2018.
Katherine Firth, Liam Connell and Peta Freestone, Your PhD Survival Guide: 
Planning, Writing, and Succeeding in Your Final Year. Routledge, p. 112. 
2020.
I.2  Who is doing the writing?
I.2.1  My story
I grew up in the 1990s. My school, my peers, the adults in my life, my com­
munity and popular culture all told me that my body was a problem, my 
emotions were a problem, and what really mattered was my brain. As a girl, 
by definition, I needed to be less emotional and not draw attention to my 
body. A lot of the job interview advice I got was about convincing employers 
I wasn’t about to get pregnant. Of course, I needed to eat and exercise and 
sleep, but only because otherwise my annoying ‘meat sack’ would break 
down and then my brain wouldn’t be able to work.
I bounced in and out of being fit, being happy, eating healthily. Sometimes 
I had everything in a great balance, and sometimes it was all a mess and I’d 
burn out or injure my back or have week-long migraines. During part of my 
PhD journey, I had a huge allotment garden where I grew fresh veggies, had 
a supportive social circle, was active in my local community, and had a 
regular and productive writing practice. During the last few months of that 
journey, my allotment was overgrown with weeds, I fell out of touch with 
my friends, I wasn’t getting any exercise or sleeping much. At the end I was 
Introduction
11
exhausted. I completed my PhD in exactly three years, but I didn’t have any 
energy left to turn my research into articles or books or grants.
I could recognize that sometimes I had it right, and that sometimes 
I wasn’t getting it right, but I wasn’t really sure how to integrate wellbeing into 
my researcher life consistently. By this time, I was also teaching and advising 
students at university, particularly postgraduate students, and it was obvious 
to me that our bodies, hearts, souls and communities are important parts of 
making progress on our research. Ignoring our physical, mental, social and 
emotional wellbeing is clearly a fast route to writer’s block, burnout, pro­
crastination or demotivation. It doesn’t feel good, and also it doesn’t work.
A few years later, I realized that although I had three degrees, two teach­
ing qualifications and extensive professional development in how to man­
age my time or write a literature review, I didn’t have much training in how 
to rest or move. But I did know how to learn. So I decided to jump in and 
build up a toolbox of wellbeing strategies that was as comprehensive as my 
academic skills toolbox.
I asked people what worked for them and tried to take my own good advice. 
I trained in learning accessibility, as a yoga teacher and as a mental health first 
aider. I read up on the research, and learned about the diverse ways that peo­
ple’s brains, bodies, cultures and preferences function. I became a supervisor 
and mentor of doctoral candidates, I ran writing intensives and masterclasses 
all over the country, I am (sometimes) an academic in a researcher developer 
team, I write a blog and books about doing a PhD. This helped me to under­
stand why some techniques didn’t work for me personally, but they might 
work for you, and why something else might work for you better.
Having such strategies doesn’t stop academic writing being hard, taking 
work, or requiring time, but it does stop academic writing being detrimental 
to your wellbeing. Movement, breath and meditation got me through 
COVID-19 lockdowns while writing three books in two years. Sometimes I 
have low motivation or feel stuck with a project. Sometimes my back or eyes 
hurt after a long day in front of my computer. Sometimes I have to navigate 
complex relationships with co-authors or publishers. Sometimes the world 
outside (or inside) is terrible. But now I have a toolbox to help me under­
stand what is happening and help me to address it. What’s more, getting all 
of this in alignment means I get to enjoy my writing more, and to use my 
writing to help spread knowledge and change the world. I would love you 
to have a toolbox that helps you too.
12
Introduction
I.2.2  Your story
I listen to people like you all the time. I am grateful to all the people who 
told me their stories, I hope this makes this book useful, inclusive, practical 
and honest.
You are the expert on your story. You know what strategies and approaches 
resonate with you, what has worked for you in the past, what your prefer­
ences are, your values and hopes, you know who is around you, and who 
you can rely on to help you out.
Take some time to reflect on your story
You might like to write down some points in this box.
If you would like a structured strategy for reflection, try the mind­
fulness exercise suggested in Section I.3.1.
I.2.3  It takes a village
Your supervisor or committee are obvious supporters in your academic pro­
ject, but there are other people in your village: mentors, lab mates, univer­
sity support staff, conference attendees. And at home: your family, people 
who care for you or for whom you have caring responsibilities.
But there are also many other communities too. When I was an interna­
tional student, I lived in a residential college as an undergraduate, and had 
a part-time job as a graduate student. I joined a choir and reached out to my 
local faith community. At other times, I have volunteered or found online 
communities that mattered to me. A big part of my movement practice is 
having a para-social relationship with my personal trainer and my yoga stu­
dio. We invite lots of people over to our house and some of them became 
part of a found-family. My cat Jelly often sits on my desk and has been an 
important writing companion.
Take time and be intentional about building your village. Register with a 
doctor. Find a therapist or a mentor. Seek out a gym where you feel comfort­
able and are likely to actually go; or use your research skills to find an 
online movement program that really works for you. Put ‘lunch break’ as 
Introduction
13
recurring meetings into your diary, and then reach out to people to join you 
for a sandwich or a midday walk. The time and effort is worth it, to build a 
sustainable research and writing life—both for your PhD and for the rest of 
your life.
Notes
A few recent articles that explore the pleasures and benefits of writing with 
a community include:
Renaud Le Goix, Myriam Houssay-Holzschuch and Camille Noûs, ‘Mul­
tiple Binds and Forbidden Pleasures: Writing as Poaching at French 
Universities’, Environment and Planning A: Economy and Space, 54:7, 
1475–1485. 2022.
Megan McPherson and Narelle Lemon, ‘Table Chats: Research Relations and 
the Impact on Our Wellbeing as Academics’, in Narelle Lemon, editor, 
Healthy Relationships in Higher Education: Promoting Wellbeing Across 
Academia, pp. 132–142. Routledge, 2021.
Cynthia Vincent, Émilie Tremblay-Wragg, Catherine E Déri and Sara Mathieu-
Chartier, ‘A Multi-Phase Mixed-Method Study Defining Dissertation 
Writing Enjoyment and Comparing PhD Students Writing in the Company 
of Others to Those Writing Alone’, Higher Education Research & Devel­
opment. Online. 2022.:
I.3  What does ‘being well’ mean?
Wellness is often used to mean health, happiness, joy or energy, but in this 
book we take a more holistic approach, a combination of physical, mental, 
emotional and social health (Eberst 1984). This book doesn’t assume you are 
brimming with strength and resilience and confidence before you can get 
started or succeed in a research degree. You can take care of yourself, and 
take care of your writing, whatever your life looks like.
Perhaps you feel like your year swings into productivity and then out 
again. Perhaps you are aware of all the wobbles and adjustments you are 
constantly having to make. Perhaps sometimes you need to reach out for 
support. Maybe sometimes you fall off-balance and have to quickly get back 
up again. This doesn’t mean you are ‘unbalanced’, this is precisely how 
human bodies and minds do balance. Bodies and minds are complex, 
dynamic things.
14
Introduction
You aren’t trying to balance like a stack of rocks, you are aiming for bal­
ance like a person. You want to develop the skills and confidence and prac­
tice to be able to react to wobbly disturbances, safely move out of the 
position, rest, and safely return. It’s dynamic, and probably not much about 
staying in one place either. You are not a robot! And you are certainly not a 
robot on a production line, standing in one place doing the same thing over 
and over again. You use balance to walk, or to move into red-faced, wobbly, 
topsy-turvy movement, and then roll out of it, and roll back to the desk for 
another go. Dynamic balance is what enables you to fall out of focus and get 
right back into it.
It’s not an issue if you finish a stint at your desk feeling like you need to 
have a stretch, go for a walk and have a snack. That’s a fantastic balance of 
focus and self-care. And as I’ll show you in the book, you can use the walk 
and snack time to progress your writing too, in ways that will make your 
writing better.
Some people tell me they feel pressured to work in unhealthy ways or are 
made to feel unwelcome in their department, not by supervisors or their uni­
versity but by their fellow students. As you build your own wellbeing prac­
tices, you contribute to a community and a culture of wellbeing for everyone, 
even as a student. And as you explore ways to be well as a researcher, you 
will discover support systems and meet others who are also committed to 
wellbeing. But even if it is just you, Audre Lorde reminds us that fighting for 
our own wellbeing becomes most urgent when we can’t expect others to 
look after our wellbeing for us (Lorde 1998/2017, pp. 130–133).
But you don’t have to wait until things go wrong, or get ‘bad enough’, to 
focus on wellbeing in your writing practice. In fact, we will all be better 
writers and better researchers (and feel better as researchers) if we focus on 
wellbeing throughout our PhD and research life.
I.3.1  ‘But I’m no good at meditation!’
People often tell me they ‘can’t meditate’: ‘I tried’, they say, ‘but I couldn’t 
clear my mind’. You don’t have to have a totally empty mind to start meditat­
ing (according to the Dalai Lama 2016; Thich Nat Hahn 1975/2020; and Jon 
Kabbat-Zinn 1995/2013). Moreover, a completely clear mind is certainly 
not what you need for mindfulness, which is about filling your mind with 
the present moment and the thing in front of you.
Introduction
15
The suggested mindfulness exercises in this book are pretty short and 
straightforward. They include things like visualizing your goals, simple breath­
ing, or a short gratitude practice. Most people can get the hang of it with a few 
tries and start to see benefits in a few weeks. The mindfulness practices are 
also intended to be warm-ups for the main event. You don’t want to exhaust 
your attention, keep enough left for your research.
Experiment until you find the thing that works best for you, or works for 
you in this moment. You can always swap some of the thinking exercises 
like going for a walk or lying on the grass instead. If you already have devel­
oped a meditation practice, you’ll probably recognize some of the exer­
cises and can start to weave in your own favourites to go deeper. But it 
doesn’t matter if you have a formal practice, it matters that the practice 
works for you.
I.3.2  ‘But I’m no good at exercise!’
The physical wellbeing practices are all pretty simple and don’t require you 
to be athletic or skilled. They sometimes involve things like an ergonomic 
check of your desk set-up or doing the washing up.
I’ll always offer options to help make the practice work for your body. You 
can also adapt the practice to support you where you are; you are the expert 
on your body. As always, make sure you are addressing any health concerns 
with a trained professional who can give you individualized advice before 
undertaking physical practices.
There are so many ways that people’s bodies are different, and your body 
might even be different day-to-day, so you are the expert on what will help 
you best! Sometimes you’ll want to adapt it to make it easier. Other times 
you might want to make it more energetic, to match where you are that day. 
I’ll recommend options for both.
16
Introduction
I.4  How to use this book
This book is a mixture of information and activities. You can read them all in 
order, or you can jump around identifying things that you think you will find 
useful, or places where you are currently experiencing difficulties. I’ll offer 
further reading, potential next steps, and options within each section so you 
can customize your own writing journey.
Notes
Richard M Eberst, ‘Defining Health: A Multidimensional Model’, Journal of 
School Health, 54:3, 99–104. 1984.
As Audre Lorde writes about ‘self-care’ in ‘A Burst of Light: Living with 
Cancer’, it is when you are sick and marginalized that you need to devote 
energy to your own wellbeing most urgently. See Audre Lorde, A Burst 
of Light: And Other Essays. Ixia Press, 1988/2017. We return to Lorde in 
Section 7.3.4
For a discussion on ablism, see Nicole Brown and Jennifer Leigh, editors, 
Ableism in Academia: Theorising Experiences of Disabilities and Chronic 
Illnesses in Higher Education. UCL Press, 2020.
On meditation and mindfulness, see:
Thich Nhat Hanh, The Miracle of Mindfulness. Penguin, 1975/2020.
Jon, Kabat-Zinn, Full Catastrophe Living: Using the Wisdom of Your Body and 
Mind to Face Stress, Pain, and Illness. Random House, 1995/2013.
The Dalai Lama, The Heart of Meditation: Discovering Innermost Awareness, 
translated by Jeffrey Hopkins. Shambhala, 2016.
While a clear mind is a higher stage of consciousness in some traditions, 
such as set out in the Dalai Lama’s commentaries on Patrul Rinpoche 
(1808–1887), Three Keys Penetrating the Core, other teachings such as the 
Diamond Sutra (868 CE) warn against believing that one can be taught or 
attain such clarity.
For an academic overview of mindfulness, see:
Simon B Goldberg, Kevin M Riordan, Shufang Sun and Richard J Davidson, ‘The 
Empirical Status of Mindfulness-Based Interventions: A Systematic Review 
of 44 Meta-Analyses of Randomized Controlled Trials’, Perspectives 
on Psychological Science, 17:1, 108–130, 2022.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2022/01/06/this-year-im-aiming-for-a-dynamic-
balance/
Introduction
17
While the chapters sequentially follow the writing cycle, the suggested 
activities can be done in any order within each chapter. You might want to 
do a physical practice as a break during your writing. The meditations are 
often designed to be warm-ups, but there’s no reason you couldn’t use them 
to finish off your writing day. You might fall in love with a particular mind­
fulness or physical practice and want to repurpose it for other stages of the 
writing process.
The order of chapters assumes that you are starting your writing journey 
at the beginning: with no literature review, no ideas, and no plan yet. But 
you might have picked up this book at any other stage of writing your PhD. 
The beauty of a cycle is you can join at any time and then follow it around 
until you come back to the place where you began. And then it will be time 
to go around the cycle again. You will read this book differently at different 
stages through your PhD and beyond. ‘How shall I write?’ means something 
different as you start your first draft, when you need to persist in writing, or 
when you face your final deadlines. Visualizing your doctoral graduation is 
different on day one from day 1,095. And if you use this book beyond your 
PhD, you’ll need to choose another goal to visualize!
This book invites you to look at how you might approach your writing 
rather than giving you a full and exhaustive writing advice guide. Each sec­
tion takes a wellbeing approach and focuses specifically on wellbeing strat­
egies to help you produce excellent academic writing. Some of the strategies 
are about playing to your strengths, or making writing tasks easier, or about 
building a positive writing mindset. I recommend you mix the advice in this 
book with advice about good writing and wellbeing, from books, experts, 
peers and your supervisors, as well as other resources about research meth­
ods, theory or project management. Throughout the book, I will highlight 
potential further resources.
The advice given in this book is relevant to higher degree by research 
students all over the world, in a whole range of degrees, and writing a range 
of thesis types. However, the language you might use at your university may 
differ. I use ‘PhD’ to stand in for all kinds of research degrees including 
Honours, Master’s by Research and Professional Doctorates; ‘student’ to talk 
about the person working towards the degree; ‘thesis’ to talk about the doc­
ument produced including portfolios and dissertations; ‘supervisor’ to refer 
to the academics responsible for guiding your research and writing; and 
‘examiners’ to talk about the readers of the finished document who decide 
18
Introduction
whether or not you have passed. These elements are consistent across the 
globe, even when we use different names.
A note on the endnotes: I asked myself, in writing this book, ‘what kind of 
referencing would be generous and useful?’ Typically in academic writing, 
we want our references to be efficient and standardized, in ways that make 
sense to other experts in our discipline. We also want to ensure we avoid 
plagiarism and establish enough evidence that someone reading our work 
with suspicion can double-check our claims (see Section 1.3.5). This book 
sometimes uses other academic research in these ways, and therefore uses 
standard citation practices. But I was aware that I am drawing across a really 
wide range of scholarly traditions (from ancient philosophical texts to mod­
ern meta-analyses of randomly controlled trials) for a really wide audience, 
and so I paid attention to my own search strategies and what helped me 
trace back to the originals in order to deepen or broaden my thinking. This 
means the notes in each section are sometimes discursive, sometimes 
include page or line numbers (even though I haven’t quoted from the source), 
and reference online material like my blog in ways that match how we actu­
ally find things online.
Much of this book started life on my blog, Research Degree Insiders, and 
I’ve given links back to the original versions of the posts so you can see how 
my writing has developed over time and across the drafting process. I have 
been thinking and drafting in public and in the community for a decade 
now, as part of my commitment to making the insider experiences of 
research visible and accessible. I hope this ends up being helpful—and also 
encourages us all to reflect on how we can make every layer of our aca­
demic writing generous to readers.
I.5  Wellbeing isn’t yet another thing 
to add to your day
Some of you may be coming to this book while everything is going pretty 
well. You are looking to optimize your experiences and maintain great 
­habits—and the tools will work well for you. Some of you may be coming 
to this book when things are a struggle—this book is also written for you. 
Whether it’s the time crunch of being a carer or having a full-time job on 
top of your research, or needing to navigate stress or disabilities, whether 
it’s writing in another language or culture or dealing with conflict in your 
Introduction
19
supervision team, the tools in this book come alongside you with compas­
sion to help you do what you need to do.
This book isn’t about adding lots of extra things to do on top of your writ­
ing, it’s about naming aspects that are all part of the writing, that will help 
you write better and feel better while writing. You don’t need to be well, or 
any good, to use these practices.
This book might help you take some useless things away from your writ­
ing. I have often seen that academia invests enormous amounts of creative 
energy into developing writing myths, using analytical energy to work 
out how we fall short of these made-up measurements, using our problem-­
solving energies to try to address them, and then draining our emotional 
reserves in feeling despondent for not being superhero writers. What if 
instead we put that creative, analytical, practical and emotional energy into 
realistic writing strategies that actually work, that motivate us, and that make 
us better writers? As a writing coach, I regularly have these conversations 
with researchers. So, as I’ve said before, this book tries to capture some of 
the strategies that people tell me most often work for them.
The practices in this book are great for people with no equipment, no 
experience, not a lot of time, and no natural talent for meditation, exercise, 
or writing. You don’t have to start out loving writing or being good at it or 
being well before you can write. This book takes the approach that some­
times we can just not hate writing that much; or that we can write a terrible 
draft and then learn how to edit it; that we can find ways to write that work 
around our bodies, brains and lives. And other times we might find joy in 
writing, we can use our strengths or preferences to find ways to write that 
make it easier or more enjoyable; and, through rewriting, we can produce 
excellent theses.
No productivity tools will help you focus indefinitely or under any cir­
cumstances. No productivity hack will turn you into a robot. It will be hard 
for you to focus, however many breathing exercises you try, if you have 
worked for too long, are in the middle of an emergency, or are being inter­
rupted constantly by children or co-workers. But you can also channel what 
focus you do have into writing when you can, or not stressing out because 
you know you have effective strategies for getting back into writing after a 
break.
Writing well is hard, and being well can be a challenge. But with the right 
tools, mindset and community, it is absolutely possible. This book outlines 
some tools, and encourages you to find your own that work even better for 
20
Introduction
your situation. This book is written from a growth mindset, starting with your 
strengths. And I hope this book enables conversations that help to grow, or 
help you find, the community of people who support you as we work to 
make the world a better place through knowing more about it.
Bring your whole self to this book. Use your self-awareness to read this 
book in a way that is useful for you. If a section seems to be irrelevant, or the 
advice doesn’t sit well with you, that’s fine. Set it aside. It might be relevant 
to you later—the pages will still be there when you need them. Perhaps the 
section will prompt you to think about ways that you can create a different 
version of the tool that is perfect for your brain, body, life, or preferences. 
Perhaps you’ll come away with just one or two strategies that turn major 
hurdles into navigable steps. If the book helps you in any of those ways, I’ll 
be delighted!
So wherever you are, whatever your life looks like, let’s explore writing 
well, and being well, for your PhD, and for the rest of your life.
Next Steps
To explore writing in the context of care for others, see for example:
James Burford and Genine Hook, ‘Curating Care-full Spaces: Doctoral 
Students Negotiating Study from Home’, Higher Education Research & 
Development, 38:7, 1343–1355. 2019.
For more unhelpful myths about what a PhD student ‘should’ look like, see 
Your PhD Survival Guide, Chapter 5, pp. 59–71.
21
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-2
Reading and thinking
Also part of the 
writing process
1
Thinking is the first stage of writing. Thinking includes understanding, anal­
ysis, creative ideas, problem-solving, conceptualization, and planning. 
Reading, research, discussions, exploration of the field, taking notes and 
planning are all ‘thinking’ tasks. Thinking can also include literally the time 
it takes to have thoughts—your thinking tasks might look like staring out the 
window, or going for a walk to mull things over, or fiddling with something 
else while trying to problem-solve.
Sometimes, we are so keen to ‘write every day’ or ‘write early, write often’, 
that we jump over the important work of reading and thinking. But you 
won’t have a strong argument in your writing if you don’t have a clear, logi­
cal understanding of what is happening in your data and why. You won’t be 
able to explain a concept you don’t yet understand. You won’t have the 
vocabulary and technical terms for phenomena without having read about 
them and heard about them extensively. For this reason, thinking is not in 
opposition to writing, but rather the first stage of writing.
Still, thinking is merely the first stage. We can easily stay here in the think­
ing stage for too long and fail to progress through all the other stages of the 
writing process. A thesis or a publication must go through every stage of 
the writing cycle, and more than once, to be completed. Unlike coursework 
degrees, where you might learn for a few months and only spend a few 
hours ticking boxes or scribbling down a few sentences in an exam at the 
end of the course to show your comprehension, a PhD requires you to move 
into the other stages of the writing earlier and stay there longer.
Thinking can be invisible, or messy, or slow. Thinking can also be 
instant, explosive, or lucky. Sometimes thinking is procedural, tidy, orderly. 
All of these are great ways to achieve thinking tasks, and you will probably 
22
Reading and thinking
experience a mixture of them. It is a mistake to try to avoid the messy, invis­
ible kinds of thinking, or to discount the instant, lucky insights. Similarly, we 
can discount skim reading or pre-research, but they are valuable forms 
of reading alongside careful close analysis of texts. Instead, welcome and 
value all the kinds of thinking and reading.
1.1  A mindfulness practice for thinking: 
Practising focus
There are many ways to learn to focus, but my favourites come from medi­
tation traditions. Meditation is often used in spiritual practices, but it is the 
same skill we use in the lab or library. Don’t worry if you are terrible at it, at 
first. Learning a new skill is always a bit messy to begin with. Keep it up for 
a few goes and see if you start to get better.
One of the most basic skills in meditation is to recover from being dis­
tracted. Even when there are no external distractions, our mind often wan­
ders off or we get tired or bored. This is absolutely fine, as long as we practice 
bringing our minds back to the point. Focus is a skill you can learn, and 
there are some basic steps that can get you started even if you find it chal­
lenging to focus sometimes.
This exercise uses a physical object, because it is so much easier to focus 
on. Any object will do. I have a small rubber duck on my desk which I often 
use, but anything else would be just as effective!
	1.	 Go to the place you think you would be most likely to do focused work, 
at the time you plan to be productive. Set up the space so that you could 
start work immediately, but do not start working just yet. Place the focus 
object in front of you.
	2.	 Set a timer for two minutes. Breathe slowly and steadily, try to stay calm 
and relaxed. There won’t be a test!
	3.	 Pay close attention to the object. Use your eyes to notice all the details. 
Do not look away from the object (but do blink!).
	4.	 If you look away, bring your gaze back to the object. You may find it 
helps to touch the object, or to turn it around. Do this as many times as 
you need to.
	5.	 When the timer goes off, reflect. What did you notice? Were you able to 
focus, or was it very difficult? What made it easier to pay attention? Did 
your focus change over time?
Reading and thinking
23
Personally, I find it gets easier to focus the longer I sit with this exercise. 
The first 30 seconds are a mess, but by the end of the time, I usually feel 
like I’m entering a calmer mind space. This helps me to know that I can 
safely ignore the messy start of any work session: if I persist, I will probably 
reach the zone. Your experience might be different and give you your own 
insights.
Figure 1.1  My mindfulness rubber duck
Options
Many people doing a PhD use a version of this focus practice to 
help them stay connected to their project: pictures of relevant people 
above their computers, or a meaningful object from their research, or 
a scale model on their desk.
Add more senses into your practice, to allow your attention more 
places to settle. Traditional meditation often uses candles, incense, 
chanting and strings of beads to support focus. Set up something 
visual, some scents and sounds, and something to touch. Perhaps 
describe what you are looking at, out loud, to help you stay con­
nected to the focus object.
24
Reading and thinking
1.2  A physical wellbeing practice for 
thinking: A walking practice
In A Philosophy of Walking, Frédéric Gros explores ways that walking 
and thinking are intertwined. Rebecca Solnit in Wanderlust and Walter 
Benjamin in The Arcades Project are two of my favourite examples of peo­
ple walking and thinking through urban spaces. In ‘Kinds of Water’, the 
poet Anne Carson walks the pilgrimage trail to Santiago di Compostela, 
accompanied by epigraphs of Japanese poets. Above Heidelberg University 
is a beautiful walk called the ‘Philosopher’s Way’, and behind some of the 
oldest colleges in Cambridge is a walk called ‘The Backs’—both places 
where scholars could jog their thinking by getting physically moving, either 
alone or in company. We often talk of our thesis, of our career, of our life 
as a ‘journey’.
We can walk to get to places, or we can walk to be between places: with 
our bodies and our blood and our breath and our brains all in motion. It 
doesn’t matter if you are strolling through beautiful forests, ambling around 
a city block, walking with a dog or a baby, or pacing around your living 
room.
Before you set out on your walk, establish the question, problem or task 
in your mind. Perhaps read an article, look over a draft, or remind yourself 
of the major points. Then, set an intention for what you will do when you 
return from your walk. What research will you be tackling when you return? 
Just have that in mind. Leave yourself a note if it helps.
Now, put all of that out of your mind. You do not need to take it with you. 
Step away from the research and go for your walk.
As you are walking, notice what is around you. The surface beneath your 
feet, is it smooth or rough, flat or inclined? Notice the feeling of the air on 
your skin, is it warm or cool, dry or humid? Notice the smells, whether 
pleasant or unpleasant. Notice the sounds: voices, bird songs, traffic, music. 
Lift your eyes up to look at things that are distant, and things that are close. 
What can you see that is colourful or unusual? What is the sky like today? 
As you keep walking, you might continue to consciously notice things, or 
you might let your mind wander to whatever it wants to think about.
As you return from your walk, take a moment to consider what to bring in 
with you, and what can be left behind. You might leave the rain, other 
Reading and thinking
25
people’s dogs, that rehearsed conversation, those meanderings outside. You 
might remove your shoes or jacket. You might have picked a flower or a 
feather or a pebble to bring back with you. You might have had an idea or a 
phrase you want to bring in.
Return to your desk and remind yourself of your question, problem or 
task. Did it make progress over the walk? Note down any important points. 
Do you need to tweak your plan after the walk, or are you now ready to dive 
into it?
In drafting this exercise, I was leading a writing retreat session, and 
we’d just had lunch, so I felt full and sleepy and not very motivated to get 
back to my writing. Instead, I set the timer for 25 minutes for everyone, 
and then threw on a jacket, grabbed my keys and my phone, and walked 
up my street and back down again, about 18 minutes of walking. The 
concrete footpath was wide and easy to walk along. It was a warm, humid 
day, with just a sprinkling of rain, and a cool breeze. I could smell damp 
soil and exhaust fumes. I heard birds and cars and other people chatting. 
The sky was grey, but the front gardens were bursting with colourful flow­
ers. Then my mind went to what I was trying to write in this section, and I 
tried a few versions of things I might want to say. Then I rehearsed an 
upcoming difficult conversation. Then I thought about my breath, how 
sticky the weather was, how I needed to replace my walking shoes soon, 
how delicious my lunch was, how sleepy I had been feeling, how I needed 
to keep up the fast pace so I wasn’t late for the group. When I returned, I 
quickly jotted down my ideas for what else to say in this section, and then 
the timer rang.
Options
Some people tell me that their work commute gives them a place to 
think between places, so jumping in the car or taking a long bus ride 
might work for you.
Some people find repetitive physical movement helpful but get 
bored at a walking pace. If you want a higher-energy outlet, replace 
the walking with running, cycling, rowing or swimming.
26
Reading and thinking
Notes
Walter Benjamin, The Arcades Project, translated by Howard Eiland and 
Kevin McLaughlin. Harvard University Press, 1999.
Anne Carson, ‘Kinds of Water’, in Plainwater: Essays and Poetry, pp. 124–
187. Vintage, 2000.
Frédéric Gros, A Philosophy of Walking, translated by John Howe. Verso 
Trade, 2014.
Rebecca Solnit, Wanderlust: A History of Walking. Penguin, 2001.
1.3  How to read and think: Different strategies
The reading and thinking stage is often also where we are at our most cre­
ative, exploratory and experimental. For some researchers, you are literally 
exploring a site or running experiments in a lab. For all researchers, this is 
the stage where we find out all the ways things don’t work. We read a lot of 
articles that don’t turn out to be relevant. Expect failed experiments, dead 
ends, rabbit holes and tantalizing options beyond the scope of your current 
project (see Section 7.3.2). These are not wastes of time, they are signs that 
you are doing truly original work. If we already knew what you were going 
to find out and how to get there, your work wouldn’t be much of a contri­
bution to knowledge.
So thinking is perhaps the stage of the writing process with the most 
diverse set of tools. You’ll have strategies that look like doing nothing, and 
strategies that look like doing something else, and strategies that look like 
writing—but they are all part of the amazing knotty challenge of coming to 
know, coming to analyse, coming to understand.
Every single time I ask a group of researchers about what they do to focus, 
I’ll get a total spectrum of answers. Rather than worrying about what works 
for other people, reflect on your own personal experience and then start 
keeping a note of what seems to work and what doesn’t. To give yourself 
options, try to find a few different strategies you can try.
Reading and thinking
27
1.3.1  Focused versus diffuse mode thinking
I In A Mind for Numbers, Barbara Oakley unexpectedly spends very lit­
tle time explaining how maths works, and a lot of time talking about how 
brains work. This means her guidance is directly relevant to the mentally 
challenging task of writing a thesis.
Oakley recommends using three different mental modes to get the most out 
of your thinking, learning, analysing, problem-solving and recall.
Preview mode: Oakley suggests you ‘take a “picture walk”’ (p. 11) through 
the chapter or material before you start to dive into the details. This means 
looking at not only figures, diagrams and illustrations, but also the abstract, 
title, subtitles and captions. Only then sit down to read and try to under­
stand the content. She writes:
You will be surprised at how spending a minute or two glanc­
ing ahead before you read in depth will help you organize your 
thoughts. You’re creating little neural hooks to hand your thinking 
on, making it easier to grasp the concepts.
(p. 11)
Focused mode: Focused mode is the kind of thinking we are most used to 
considering ‘academic work’. You sit down, remove distractions, and pur­
posefully think about something. You use well-known patterns and thinking 
habits to help you be efficient. You find it is more effective if you have a 
defined time, place, plan and goal.
Focused work is essential for academic thought. It’s also the kind of work we 
are doing when we are writing and revising drafts. However, it takes a lot of 
energy and can only be maintained for a limited amount of time. No one is 
able to go on focusing all day every day. Pay attention to your own attention 
patterns and plan around them. You are likely to find focused work is easiest 
when you are most awake and in a setting that supports your focus. That may 
be early in the morning or late at night: again pay attention to your own atten­
tion patterns and plan around them (May 1999).
28
Reading and thinking
Focused thinking tends to be logical and linear, so when you run into a 
roadblock, or need a creative or original approach to a problem, focused 
thinking can’t take you forward. In a PhD, because you are making an 
original contribution to knowledge, our current mental models can only 
take us so far. This is the point when we should be moving into diffuse 
mode.
Diffuse mode: Diffuse mode, or resting-state networks, might not sound 
like useful thinking time. However, diffuse mode thinking is not actually 
taking a break from thinking. Instead, it’s a break from focused thinking. In 
the background, thinking is still going on (Andrews-Hanna 2012). In this 
state, you might be better able to get the big picture, to use fuzzy logics, play 
around, come at a problem from another angle, or be creative (D’Mello et 
al. 2014; Takeuchi et al. 2011; Wieth and Zacks 2011). Because this think­
ing mode is closer to resting (and may even include the thinking you do 
while you are asleep!), you can sustain this kind of thinking for hours, days 
or even weeks with little effort.
Diffuse mode thinking will probably be taking place whether you want it 
to or not, throughout your candidature. But it can often be activated inten­
tionally if you notice your brain is getting stuck. I used to go to my commu­
nity garden and dig potato trenches for a couple of hours every time I got 
stuck in my writing. I would frequently come back and find that the impos­
sible tangle was easily resolved. Steven King in On Writing says that he gets 
a lot of his best ideas in the shower, while driving or on his daily walk (p. 
170): tasks just engaging enough to keep you occupied, but not so difficult 
that your brain is fully engaged. There’s still enough capacity for diffuse 
mode thinking.
Since good ideas might come to you while you are away from your 
desk or your hands are full, do make a plan for how you will capture 
those great insights. Keep a notebook nearby, use the voice memo func­
tion on your phone, or use whiteboard markers on your bathroom tiles.
Don’t worry if you get back to your desk and find that your great insights 
don’t quite work in your draft. Not every idea you have in the shower will 
be a major breakthrough, but some of them will be. And you’ll have a lot of 
showers in the years you are working towards your PhD, so there’s plenty of 
time to have another go.
According to Oakley, you should always approach a problem using pre­
viewing, then focused thinking, then diffuse thinking, before returning to 
focused thinking.
Reading and thinking
29
1.3.2  Pre-research reading
Lots of reading, understanding and thinking needs to happen before you get 
down to the next stage of research. I call this ‘pre-research’, and everyone 
Next Steps
The walking practice in Section 1.2 uses movement to activate diffuse 
mode thinking. The walking practice in Section 2.2 is a focused mode 
exercise.
Sweeping the paths or doing the washing up can be a chance to be 
totally present (as you will practice in Section 4.2), but they can also 
be good strategies for activating diffuse mode thinking.
See more on how to plan your time to match your focus energy in 
Chapter 2, especially Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2. You’ll also see these 
ideas return in Chapters 3 and 4 when we contrast the work of writing 
a first draft with the recharging strategies.
Notes
Jessica R Andrews-Hanna, ‘The Brain’s Default Network and Its Adaptive 
Role in Internal Mentation’, The Neuroscientist, 18:3, 251–270. 2012.
Stephen King, On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft. Simon and Schuster, 
2000/2010.
Cynthia P May, ‘Synchrony Effects in Cognition: The Costs and a Benefit’, 
Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 6, 142–147. 1999.
Sidney D’Mello, Blair Lehman, Reinhard Pekrun and Art Graesser, ‘Confusion 
Can Be Beneficial for Learning’, Learning and Instruction, 29, 153–170. 2014.
Barbara A Oakley, A Mind for Numbers: How to Excel at Math and Science 
(Even if you Flunked Algebra). TarcherPerigee, 2014.
Hikaru Takeuchi, Yasuyuki Taki, Hiroshi Hashizume, Yuko Sassa, Tomomi 
Nagase, Rui Nouchi and Ryuta Kawashima, ‘Failing to Deactivate: The 
Association Between Brain Activity During a Working Memory Task and 
Creativity’, Neuroimage, 55:2, 681–687. 2011.
Mareike B Wieth and Rose T Zacks, ‘Time of Day Effects on Problem Solving: 
When the Non-Optimal is Optimal’, Thinking & Reasoning, 17:4, 387–401. 
2011.
30
Reading and thinking
needs to do it as they move into new research territory. Pre-research gives 
you the lay of the land in a new field before you jump into a deeper litera­
ture review.
It’s common to get a sense of the ‘generally agreed’ information about a 
topic using lectures, textbooks, reference books like encyclopedias or dic­
tionaries, or reputable websites. What does ‘everyone know’? There have 
been many times when I have needed a refresher or the equivalent of a week 
in class, to get my head around the basics of a new topic, perhaps because 
I’m teaching a class on a new text or I’m working on a field of research that 
overlaps with another field that I’m more hazy about. Pre-research can give 
you an easy overview of ‘Who, what, where, when, why, how?’ to orient 
you. News articles, podcasts, explainer videos and Wikipedia articles are 
great ways to learn about a new idea for the first time, even though you 
would not usually reference them in your literature review.
You can learn a lot about a field by being part of the scholarly conversa­
tion, digitally or in person. Talk to your supervisor. Follow academics on 
social media, go to seminars and conferences, have chats with other people 
in your department. Pre-research is often a social activity that helps you feel 
connected to your field. These conversations are essential for your under­
standing, framing and research planning, even though they won’t ever be 
quoted in your thesis.
There are a lot of reasons why pre-research is unlikely to make it into your 
final written work. Pre-research is about ‘common knowledge’, and you 
don’t need a citation for common knowledge. We actually do all know that 
the sun rises in the east, Tuesday is a day of the week, a metre is 100 cm. 
Moreover, as common knowledge is settled, pre-research is not where the 
debate is happening. This is why it was appropriate to quote encyclopedias 
and dictionaries in your high school essays, since high school is about get­
ting a basic working understanding of the world. Academic writing, how­
ever, is a place to put forward arguments and to have debates.
That pre-research gives you a quick primer is a benefit, but it is also a 
limitation: pre-research is usually quick, and so it is often shallow, perfunc­
tory, or highly condensed. Someone who only had a conversation, went to 
a lecture or read a Wikipedia article has a very limited understanding of the 
field. Sometimes that limited amount of information can mean they actually 
misunderstand the full issue. Even if they are correct, their understanding is 
not deep and robust enough to stand up to the kinds of scrutiny that we 
expect of a peer-reviewed article or examined thesis. So while pre-research 
Reading and thinking
31
is a positive and essential stage in your thinking and reading, you can’t stay 
there forever.
Once you have done the pre-research, you are well placed to move on to 
the next stage of reading. Because of the pre-research, you will probably 
already have a significant list of the scholarly books and articles that you will 
cite in your academic writing, and the contexts and concepts needed to 
understand and analyse them.
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2019/01/03/wikipedia-dictionaries-
encyclopaedias/ and https://researchinsiders.blog/2019/01/17/how-do-you-get-
from-pre-research-to-search-and-then-research/
1.3.3  Reading the academic literature flexibly and with confidence
A lot of the difficulties that doctoral students have in getting started, in pow­
ering through the slow middle, and in getting to completion, are actually 
caused by reading. So reading well can transform our writing. And you need 
to keep upskilling your reading throughout the PhD, even if you started out 
‘good at reading’.
According to Cisco (2020), reading can prompt feelings of being an impos­
ter in graduate students. Students with imposter phenomenon say things like:
I’m like, ‘I really should have known this. … Am I the only one that 
doesn’t have any inkling what that means?’
‘[I never] completely understand what I read’.
‘Am I smart enough to pull-out what somebody else would see as 
important?’
(p. 207)
These students demonstrate that they see reading as an intelligence test (to 
be fair, they probably learned this from school). As a graduate student, they 
have been a ‘smart’ person all their life, but that self-perception is being 
challenged by their current research. These students also display traits 
32
Reading and thinking
of what we technically call a ‘fixed intelligence mindset’ (Dweck 2006). 
People with a fixed mindset see intelligence as an innate characteristic: you 
are smart or you’re not. So if you are failing the reading intelligence test, that 
would prove you are not smart and certainly not smart enough for a PhD. 
That would be terrifying. Fortunately, it’s not true!
Academic intelligence and learning are things you can be taught and you 
can learn. Realizing and acting in this way is called having a ‘growth mind­
set’ (Dweck 2006). If you have a growth mindset, then a text or concept 
you don’t understand is an opportunity to develop, not a judgement on your 
capacity. If you make a mistake, it’s a chance to have another go. In aca­
demia, we call this the ‘experimental method’, and it is the basis of everything 
we do. The graduate degree is not a test of whether you already know ‘this’ 
but a chance to get to know ‘this’, whatever ‘this’ might be.
Furthermore, the point of a research degree is to create new knowledge. 
To do that, you need to be curious and experimental. If smart people ‘already 
know that’, it’s not new knowledge. If ‘everyone knows that’, it’s not a 
unique contribution.
People who are trying to read perfectly, or feel like an imposter if they read 
imperfectly, are trying to read like a good student, a well-behaved, passive 
recipient of great knowledge. But that is not the best way, or even a good, 
way to read. People often bristle at this kind of statement, but to be clear 
about my credentials to argue such a potentially shocking idea: I have a PhD 
in English literature, and my first degree was at Cambridge University where 
they believed that everyone needed to learn how to read for academic pur­
poses. I have lectured in reading skills for English literature, as well as aca­
demic skills, so I’m pretty confident that my reading advice is solid.
So what ways of reading are unhelpful to PhD students?
It’s not helpful to read every text the same way: As high school students and 
undergraduates, we are taught to read slowly, closely, carefully. Even in sub­
jects known for their high volume of reading, undergraduates are given the two 
most useful journal articles already photocopied and a set text they can buy 
from the university bookshop. You already know the text is important, that’s 
why you were given it. You also know that the texts are limited, there are never 
more than three or four things to read in a week. So you read them carefully.
You will need to read certain texts carefully for your PhD too: like foun­
dational theory, or for close textual analysis. If you are in a field like maths 
or science and you miss a single ∑ or 2 in your equation, the whole thing fails 
to work—or worse, explodes with noxious gases!
Reading and thinking
33
But that’s not how you need to be reading the majority of your research 
texts. Most articles and books need to be viewed, but not closely analysed. 
So don’t read like an undergraduate, because you can’t. When your super­
visor says ‘it may be worth your while quickly flicking through this article’, 
it honestly means you should quickly flick through that article.
You can’t avoid missing things out, and that’s okay: It’s not a disaster if 
you miss one tiny thing, or even quite a lot of things. It’s a PhD, not a Nobel 
Prize, as an article by Mullins and Kiley (2002) reminds us. In my previous 
book, Your PhD Survival Guide, we called this fear of missing out ‘Just One 
More Article Syndrome’ or JOMA (2021, p. 78); Kearns and Gardiner call it 
‘Readitis’ (2010, p. 12). The examiners are expecting that you will leave 
some things out and you will miss stuff. You have fewer than 100,000 words 
in your thesis, which is nothing compared to all knowledge, even to all 
vaguely relevant knowledge. Your thesis is supposed to make a limited and 
incremental contribution to your field.
There will be a tiny number of texts you need to go back to later that you 
didn’t think were important at the time. If the article really does matter, your 
supervisor or examiner will point it out—that’s what edits and revisions are 
for. But even if you have to travel four hours by train and stay overnight 
returning to an archive, you will waste less time returning to that archive, 
than if you read every article as if it were your only chance. (A true example 
from my own PhD!)
You’ll forget some of the things you read: That’s absolutely okay too! 
Trying to store all that stuff in your head crowds out room for the important 
cognitive work you need to be doing: making connections, interpretation, 
problem-solving. No one is storing all this stuff in their heads. You may want 
some things you use every day committed to memory. But for the rest, use 
notebooks, index cards, cloud storage, USB sticks, note apps and reference 
databases.
Don’t think ‘skim’ reading is cheating: Anything that gets you closer to 
finishing is a good thing. Not stuff that’s unethical, of course: no mistreatment 
of animals, exploitation of human subjects, or plagiarism. But a bit of skim 
reading? Go for it! There is no moral or intellectual value in punishing your­
self, and a PhD is challenging enough without adding extra and unnecessary 
work.
You should be using the index at the back of a book and the contents 
page. This also goes for digital reading. Get your computer to skim for you 
by using your computer to search documents for key terms.
34
Reading and thinking
The three stages of speed reading are ‘previewing’, ‘spotting’ and ‘using 
signposts’. Speed reading is not the same as close reading, just faster. 
Speed reading doesn’t all happen at one speed or one depth. You read the 
abstract, the subheadings, and picked the contention out of the introduc­
tion to get an overview of the text. You whizz along, keeping an eye out for 
signposts like chapter headings and topic sentences. When you spot some­
thing that seems useful, you slow down, you collect what you need, and 
then move on. If you know Chapter 2 isn’t relevant, you should skip it 
entirely.
The thing that matters in this scholarly kind of reading is that you, not the 
author, are in control of the speed and length of reading. Sometimes I spend 
two minutes ‘reading’ a massive 600-page biography and two hours reading 
a tiny 60-word poem.
To read flexibly and with confidence, I therefore recommend:
	•	 Read like it’s an adventure.
	•	 Read promiscuously.
	•	 Read around the text.
	•	 Just read the index.
	•	 Skim read.
	•	 Start with the Wikipedia page and come back and try again.
	•	 Put the text down and come back in ten years.
	•	 Read it really slowly.
	•	 Read it out loud.
	•	 Listen to someone else read it to you.
	•	 Skip to the end.
	•	 Find something else you like and read that instead.
	•	 Read it ten times.
	•	 Only read the introduction.
Different strategies will work for different texts, and for the different reasons 
you are reading the texts. But every one of these is a valid and useful strat­
egy. I’ve used them all, regularly.
Reading is as nuanced and flexible a skill as writing. Even though you 
have been reading for a long time, a PhD will challenge you to develop even 
further. Give yourself the permission to do it imperfectly, and you will do 
it better. Seeing academic reading as an experiment, an adventure and a 
Reading and thinking
35
chance to learn new things will make reading more enjoyable, and also set 
you up for success in your academic future. So please do have a go at grow­
ing your reading mindset.
1.3.4  Taking notes
We might take notes for lots of reasons: to keep ourselves occupied in 
boring meetings, to jog our memory when we are at the supermarket, to 
encourage ourselves and others, to give instructions. Here I am talking 
about the kinds of notes we take as a prelude to writing. These notes are 
most commonly in response to reading, to research, or meetings with your 
supervisor.
There are a myriad of notebooks, apps and memos to help you take notes. 
More important than your particular note-taking style is to make sure your 
notes include all of the following attributes.
Coordinates: How will you find this item again? In academic research, 
this often means the bibliographic reference. But it might include page num­
bers, line numbers, library call numbers, or DOI hyperlinks. You might also 
Notes
Jonathan Cisco, ‘Exploring the Connection between Impostor Phenomenon 
and Postgraduate Students Feeling Academically-Unprepared’, Higher 
Education Research & Development, 39:2, 200–214. 2020.
Carol S Dweck, Mindset: The New Psychology of Success. Random House, 
2006.
Maria Gardiner and Hugh Kearns, Turbocharge Your Writing: How to Become 
a Prolific Academic Writer. ThinkWell, 2010.
Gerry Mullins and Margaret Kiley. ‘“It’s a PhD, Not a Nobel Prize”: How 
Experienced Examiners Assess Research Theses’, Studies in Higher Edu­
cation, 27:4, 369–386. 2002.
Your PhD Survival Guide. pp. 78–79.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2020/11/26/when-reading-makes-you-feel-like-
an-imposter/ and the Times Higher Education (2016): https://www.
timeshighereducation.com/blog/five-biggest-reading-mistakes-and-how-
avoid-them
36
Reading and thinking
be taking notes about a meeting, your experiments, or on a field trip: so 
place, time, date and other people in attendance might also be good ways 
to locate this material again.
Content: Notes are distinct from copies. You may need to copy/paste text, 
and make tracings, transcripts, topographies, measurements, scans, record­
ings or other data sets, which are only valuable if they are complete and 
comprehensive. The only time to copy out lots of content verbatim is if the 
original documents will not be available to us later, perhaps because they 
are in an archive or you are in a meeting that won’t be recorded.
Notes are the opposite, notes are supposed to be partial. They should 
highlight what is relevant and important, what you are actually going to use 
for your draft. Taking notes about content might involve highlighting or 
underlining on the document; or writing or sketching them in your note­
book. For much of your literature review, that might only be a few quoted 
words or facts, or a one-sentence summary.
Rather than leave your content notes as a pile of related thoughts, you 
should take your notes to the next level by intentionally making space to 
summarize or synthesize your overview of the content. Notes should also 
involve your reactions, responses and connections through arrows, margi­
nalia notes or writing down your commentary.
Key themes: Tags, index terms and identifying themes are all useful to 
add into your notes, to help you find your notes again, and to connect 
material across different entries. You might use a running set of themes 
emerging from your data to help you define a research question. Or, 
once you have identified your key themes, you might use key words to 
keep your notes relevant and tied to the scope of your current research 
project.
Tasks: Research leads to more research tasks. Perhaps you have found a 
lot of new articles you need to read. Perhaps you have come across a con­
cept or some vocab you don’t understand. Maybe you need to review or 
revise work you have previously completed. Perhaps you have questions 
you need to ask, or permissions you need to ask for.
The most important task to consider is how to turn your notes into writ­
ing. Write a few lines of academic prose to summarize and synthesize the 
notes, right there on the same page as the notes. These lines might become 
a topic sentence for the relevant paragraph, or the summary in a literature 
review.
Reading and thinking
37
If I leave this work until I come to write the draft, then I often find I need 
to re-read the whole paper or data set again to refresh my memory with 
enough detail and context to be able to analyse it and strategically draw out 
what is most important and most relevant to my draft. But that defeats the 
purpose of taking notes in the first place.
Really good notes will hold on, even for years. For example, just before 
the pandemic, I had some research leave in the UK to visit a library with 
a lot of resources not available to me in Australia where I live. Not only 
did the pandemic hit, but scheduling challenges with two other book 
projects also meant I didn’t get back to the chapter until about 18 months 
later. Because I had taken such careful notes, including all the elements 
in this section, I  was able to pick up where I left off, and produce a 
closely researched draft full of complex conceptualization and relevant 
detail. If I had taken more haphazard or less analytical notes, I probably 
would not have been able to write the chapter until the borders reopened 
over a year later.
The way I lay out my notes page looks like Figure 1.2, a variation of the 
Cornell Method of note-taking that I have updated for my use as a researcher 
(from Owens and Pauk 2013; Mewburn et al. 2021). You should explore to 
find a similar note-taking strategy that is robust enough to support you 
through major life disruptions or just the normal time it takes to get a thesis 
written.
Notes
You can find earlier versions of this method for undergraduates in
Inger Mewburn, Katherine Firth and Shaun Lehmannm, Level Up Your Essays: 
How to Get Better Grades at University, p. 109. NewSouth, 2021.
A first version of this section was written for The Thesis Whisperer: https://
thesiswhisperer.com/2012/12/12/turn-your-notes-into-writing-using-the-
cornell-method/ and Research Degree Insiders: https://researchinsiders.
blog/2017/04/27/turn-your-notes-into-writing-using-the-cornell-method-
second-edition/
Ross JQ Owens and Walter Pauk, How to Study in College, p. 260. Cengage, 
1962/2013.
38
Reading and thinking
1.3.5  Generous reading strategies
Often academic reading is experienced as a chore, or an anxiety, or an extrac­
tive industry. You might skim, mine, or categorize your reading. You might 
read to critique, to look for the gaps. Perhaps you are looking forward to the 
day when machine-learning tools can do your reading for you. Perhaps you 
would like to keep up with the wider reading in your field, but don’t feel 
like you have time.
Of course, there are some direct ways that we might find wellbeing in 
our academic reading. You can find information that offers a solution to 
a mental, physical or practical problem. It can be affirming to see posi­
tive representations of people like you or your work in publications. It 
can be reassuring to see other scholarship confirming you are on the 
right track.
But we can also take Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick’s ‘reparative’ reading strate­
gies and think about how to build a generous reading practice. In her 
chapter in Touching Feeling (1997) subtitled ‘You’re so paranoid, I bet you 
think this Introduction is about you’, Sedgwick sets out a dichotomy of ‘par­
anoid reading’ versus ‘reparative reading’. Paranoid reading is exactly how 
we are trained to read as academics. We read with an eye for what is 
Figure 1.2  The Cornell Method of note taking adapted for researchers
Reading and thinking
39
missing, we don’t trust anything that is claimed without solid proof. We are 
looking for reasons to reject articles, we are looking for issues that need 
resolving in feedback. Doctoral examiners take very seriously the responsi­
bility that they must read theses with what has been called ‘a hermeneutic 
of suspicion’ (Ricœur 1965): reading texts with scepticism, doubting the 
author’s intent, looking for places where the author is deluding themselves 
or concealing weaknesses.
When we are reading to assess, as when we mark, peer review or 
examine, we are required to use this paranoid reading strategy. ‘The 
examiner doesn’t know you and doesn’t trust you’ is useful basic advice. 
The purpose of assessment reading is to stop bad things happening in 
research, so we don’t award qualifications to people who shouldn’t be 
trusted. This is essential, when it is essential. But we are not always read­
ing for assessment.
When I am reading for academic purposes, sometimes, yes, I am looking 
for gaps or cracks or issues. But more often, I am reading to understand what 
other people think, I am looking for interesting ways to tackle a problem, or 
insightful ways to see a solution. In those cases, paranoid reading strategies 
don’t help much, when I am looking for good stuff.
To start reading from a position of looking for the potential for pleasure 
has, Sedgwick argues, two implications:
[an] empathetic view of the other as at once good, damaged, integral, 
and requiring and eliciting love and care [and] … the often very frag­
ile concern to provide the self with pleasure and nourishment in an 
environment that is perceived as not particularly offering them.
(1997, p. 137)
It is worth noting that at no point does reparative reading assume there 
are no gaps, no issues, no problems. Instead, it constitutes a relationship 
between imperfect text and imperfect reader in which ‘care’ is the defin­
ing modality, and for which ‘pleasure and nourishment’ are the defining 
goals.
We may have been taught (I certainly was) that to take such a trusting, 
hopeful, helpful, positive attitude is to be ‘sappy’ or ‘anti-intellectual’ 
(Sedgewick 1997, p. 150). But I have learned to be much more generous as 
an academic reader through the process of reading with others.
40
Reading and thinking
As an academic advisor, writing coach or doctoral supervisor, it’s not hard 
to read student drafts with generosity. They are sitting right there, being nice 
people, honestly struggling to get their research into writing. I have no trou­
ble being reparative, supportive, helpful, in such circumstances. However, 
when I am reading the work of senior, established, published scholars, my 
reading strategies tend to be much more negative.
The best place for me to learn to read positively has been the same 
place: I need to read with others. Reading with another person also com­
mitted to generous reading challenges me to be more positive, and inter­
rupts my negative, un-generous assumptions. So often my negative 
reactions are gut feelings rather than measured judgements. Being judge­
mental (rather than judicious) gets in the way of me seeing how scholars 
from other disciplines or stages of research are able to bring insights that I 
might miss in my rush to feel sophisticated or expert or—to be honest—
clever. When I take a breath and look again, I often find something to value 
in the writing.
Generous readings don’t have to be purely positive readings. Sometimes, 
as I read generously, I find something that pushes my thinking forward 
even though I don’t agree with it, or it isn’t quite how I would approach it. 
Generosity is about largesse, about expansion, about inclusion. Thinking 
broadly and openly gives space for better thinking.
At other times, the article is just bad and I hate it, so having someone to 
share my feelings with helps me to feel better. In this case, reading together 
is reparative not of the text but of ourselves. Universities are often environ­
ments that do not particularly offer care or pleasure or nourishment, but 
reading with others can make such care possible.
I read-with-others in a number of ways: sometimes with my co-au­
thors, sometimes via Twitter, sometimes with others via my books and 
blogging. But perhaps the most consistent strategy I’ve found for gener­
ous reading is to belong to an academic reading group. Reading in 
groups is a great strategy to give you a deadline to get those books and 
articles out of the ‘to be read’ pile, and to develop your thinking. Pick a 
group that matches your time, interests and reading style, or start your 
own.
Reading can seem like a luxury or a chore in academic life. We need to 
do our chores, but we can also afford to have our little luxuries, our care of 
ourselves and of each other.
Reading and thinking
41
Notes
Paul Ricœur, Freud and Philosophy: An Essay on Interpretation, translated by 
Denis Savage, pp. 28–33. Yale University Press, 1965/1970.
Eve Kosofsky Sedgwick, ‘Paranoid Reading and Reparative Reading, or, You’re 
So Paranoid, You Probably Think this Essay is About You’, in Touching 
Feeling, pp. 123–152. Duke University Press, 1997/2003.
Sedgwick writes her chapter in the context of the HIV crisis, homopho­
bia, racial violence, and her own advanced breast cancer. The joke in 
Sedgwick’s title is a pun on Carly Simon’s 1993 hit song, ‘You’re So Vain, 
I Bet You Think this Song is About You’.
‘Generous reading’ tends to be placed in opposition to critical reading, for 
examples see:
Lucy K Spence, ‘Generous Reading: Seeing Students Through Their Writing’, 
The Reading Teacher, 63:8, 634–642. 2010.
Kate L Turabian, A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and Dis­
sertations: Chicago Style for Students and Researchers, 9th edition, p. 39, 
revised by Wayne C Booth, Gregory G Colomb, Joseph M Williams, Joseph 
Bizup, William T FitzGerald and the University of Chicago Press editorial 
staff. University of Chicago Press, 2018.
In contrast, the version of generous reading put forward in this section is also 
critical and engaged.
Next Steps
Explore working together through planning in Section 2.4.1 and writ­
ing in Section 3.3.3.
Explore reparative strategies through writing in Section 7.3.4 and 
logical structures in Section 5.3.2.
1.3.6  Put aside time to just think
How much time do you have in your typical research day simply for think­
ing? Not reading or taking notes or going to meetings or organizing data, 
but giving yourself sustained time to think thoughts? Maybe you only get 
around to thinking while you are doing other things: like walking the dog or 
42
Reading and thinking
doing chores. These are absolutely times you might have thoughts, but there 
is a difference between planned thinking time, and just getting lucky while 
multitasking. Sometimes you need to exclusively think. Not even thinking 
while you are at your desk or writing your draft or reading a book either, but 
intentionally and extensively just thinking.
What does thinking look like? Thinking does not ‘look’ productive. In fact, 
it can ‘look’ like doing absolutely nothing. At other times, thinking can 
appear silly, or boring, or strange, or loud. And so it can be easy to let your­
self be convinced that thinking is wasted time. And yet, the most important, 
original, innovative work in a research project and a writing project is the 
outcome of your thinking.
It helps if you can schedule your thinking time when you can be alone or 
you know everyone else will ignore you. Not only does this free you up to 
think however works best for you, but you also know you aren’t interrupting 
anyone else’s thought processes. You might need to move around, talk out 
loud, stare out the window or close your eyes. You might think better if you 
are outside, or if you can pace. I avoid thinking tasks in co-working spaces 
because I make faces and gesticulate; I like loud, upbeat music; and I like to 
talk my thoughts out loud. Other people make me feel self-conscious, and 
I know I will be distracting them from their work.
The most important part of thinking is making space for ideas to emerge, 
to be explored, to be turned over in your head, to be taken apart, to be put 
back together. One way I like to make space to think is by getting out of the 
office in nice weather, and sit on the grass. I will start by reading something 
generative, and then lie back on the grass and stare at the sky for a 25-minute 
block. I keep a notebook to hand to capture any thoughts, but I try not to use 
it. The sky is really weird if you stare at it for ages. I let my mind wander. At 
first, I am itchy and antsy and bored. But as I lie there, my thoughts slow 
down and open up. In this state, I can be more creative, make new connec­
tions, or solve problems. Or I can glom onto a particularly knotty issue and 
painstakingly pick through it, unravelling it thread by thread.
Sometimes I rise from this time of thinking with the answer, shining in my 
mind. Sometimes I have tried and discarded a whole raft of dead-ends, 
which is also important thinking work. Sometimes I have just worked out 
what the problem actually is. Thinking is like any experiment: it doesn’t 
always succeed, but you won’t ever succeed if you don’t experiment.
Put time in your diary for thinking. Make space so you can think in the 
way that is most generative for you. If your thinking time didn’t produce 
Reading and thinking
43
amazing new insights, that’s not a sign to abandon your thinking practice, 
it’s a sign you still need to do more of it.
Next Steps
If you find that thinking is best activated while doing other things (see 
Section 1.3.1), you might find the walking practice in Section 1.2 or 
the mindful washing up in Section 4.2 could be adapted for thinking.
1.3.7  Journaling
Do you keep a diary? Not a day planner or digital calendar where you sched­
ule in meetings, but a place to record your thoughts and reflect on the day.
If you work in an experimental science field, you may already have a lab 
notebook: the record of what you did in each experiment, what the results 
were, why you took those steps, and any new ideas or problems that arose 
in the research. These are an essential practical, legal and academic record 
of how you researched. If you are in a field-work discipline, you might sim­
ilarly keep a record of what you saw, what you found, what you heard, 
where and when it happened.
It’s a good idea for every researcher, in every field, to keep a formal 
research notebook of this kind. Record your library database search terms 
that get you the articles you are actually searching for. Record how much 
you read, or wrote, each day and on what sections of the thesis. Keep a note 
of who you met at a conference and their contact details. This will be helpful 
not only for practical reasons, but also for reporting back to your supervisor 
or annual review of what you did. Tracking your productivity can also help 
you work out how to plan sensibly for the future in ways that honour your 
process.
Foucault suggests, in a late lecture about ‘Self-Writing’, that researchers 
should use journals ‘to capture the already-said, to collect what one has 
managed to hear or read’, not only for the purposes of research but 
also ‘for a purpose that is nothing less than the shaping of the self’ (p. 211). 
The ancient Greek word Foucault uses for notebooks or memoirs (hupom­
nēmata) is closely related to the word for research notebook (hupom­
nāmata). Deliberately bringing together reading with writing through 
44
Reading and thinking
regular reflective practice helps you to construct your own writerly iden­
tity, Foucault suggests, which you will later reinforce through going back 
to your journals and rereading them. It is always a surprise to go back to 
early notebooks and realize how much you have grown as a researcher, 
and how much has remained consistent.
Such a journaling and reflective practice can be a form of self-care in 
another way too. Across the History of Sexuality, Foucault returns to a num­
ber of ancient Latin and Greek philosophical texts to discuss the ‘cultivation 
of the self’ (pp. 48–49). Notably, in Alcibiades 1, a dialogue between Socrates 
and Alcibiades, attributed to Plato, ‘self-care’ is used to talk about developing 
expertise and leadership potential, about becoming educated, wise, compe­
tent. The focus turns from the management, effort and expertise of the self to 
self-knowledge in the latter part of the dialogue. This plays on the Delphic 
motto ‘know thyself’ (γνω̂θι σαυτόν), which Socrates proposes to amend to 
‘see yourself’ (ἰδὲ σαυτόν) through self-reflection, by looking at yourself, as if 
in a mirror, in order to see your soul or true nature (124b, 132d).
Foucault’s ancient sources suggest that we know ourselves, and thus man­
age ourselves through a daily reflective practice: Seneca says he reflects the 
morning about the day to come, making his plans and to-do lists, and then, in 
the evening when things are quiet, undertakes a review of the day (De Ira 
III.36; Care of the Self pp. 63–69). But your reflective research journal doesn’t 
have to be updated daily, and it doesn’t have to be something you do on your 
own. Foucault points out in ‘Self-Writing’ that you can also write your reflec­
tions down in ‘correspondence’ (p. 214). In 2021, I met up every month with 
a colleague over a video call, and we wrote each other a report on how our 
writing was going. You might write a version of this report for your supervisor.
Writing your own story is called ‘expressive writing’ in the literature, and 
is therapeutic and empowering (Chiew 2021; Wilson 2013). So make space 
in your journaling practice for looking forward, thinking sideways, being 
critical and analytical. It’s useful to have a place to capture questions about 
your research, or to express your emotions, or to start to sketch out half-
baked ideas. You might keep your expressive writing in the same research 
notebook, or in a separate place that you keep private.
Record information in all the ways that are useful for you. Do you like to 
colour code, or keep photographs, voice memos or videos? Do you want to 
connect information, with arrows or hashtags? Are you using a pencil that 
might smudge or fade over the next few years? If your journal is online, what 
are your back-up plans? What will motivate you to actually use the diary? 
Reading and thinking
45
I love nice paper and pretty pens. I know someone who makes their own 
research journals with repurposed materials and found images. But it might 
be more important for your journal to have a waterproof cover or extensive 
battery life.
Reflective journaling, therefore, can be adapted to whatever you need 
for your process and your life and your brain and your research, whether 
you use different strategies across different stages of your research and writ­
ing process, or a one-true system across the years. A journal helps you to 
make your thinking and reading visible, and helps you put it into writing. 
Articulating your thoughts, the act of writing them down and then of review­
ing them later, are powerful research, productivity and wellbeing strategies. 
They are worth making time for.
Notes
Examples of research journals include:
‘An Idiot’s Guide to Fieldwork and Notebooks’, UCL Geology Department, 
n.d. https://www.ucl.ac.uk/earth-sciences-virtualfieldtrip/files/an-idiots-
guide-to-fieldwork-and-notebooks.pdf
Philip Ryan, ‘Keeping a Lab Notebook Basic Principles and Best Practices’, 
National Institutes of Health, Office of Intramural Training and Education, 
n.d. https://www.training.nih.gov/assets/Lab_Notebook_508_(new).pdf
Your PhD Survival Guide, pp. 52–54. n.d.
There are well-established therapeutic effects for ‘expressive’ writing, see:
Florence Chiew, ‘Writing as Healing’, in Paul Crawford and Paul Kadetz, edi­
tors, Palgrave Encyclopedia of the Health Humanities. Palgrave Macmillan, 
2021.
Michel Foucault, Ethics: Subjectivity and Truth, Volume 1, edited by Paul 
Rainbow, translated by Robert Hurley. New York Press, 1997. See ‘Self-
Writing’, pp. 207–222.
Timothy D Wilson, Redirect: Changing the Stories We Live By. Penguin, 
2011/2013.
The ancient Greek word Foucault uses for notebooks or memoirs (hupom­
nēmata, ὑπομνήματα) is closely related to the word for research notebook 
(hupomnāmata, ὑπομνάματα). See Diogenes Laertius, ‘Life of Pythagoras’ 
in Lives of Eminent Philosophers, Volume II: Books 6–10, translated 
by R. D. Hicks, pp. 358–359. Loeb Classical Library 185, 8.1. Harvard 
University Press, c. 250CE/1925.
Michel Foucault, History of Sexuality, Care of the Self, Volume 3, Cultivation 
of the Self, translated by Robert Hurley. Penguin, 1984/2020.
46
Reading and thinking
Now you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you want 
to take forward and put into practice.
You might use the journaling (see Section 1.3.6), lying on the grass 
(see Section 1.3.5), or talking to a colleague (see Section 1.3.1) strat­
egies discussed in this chapter as reflection tools. Reflect on the fol­
lowing questions:
	•	 What aspects of reading and thinking are easy for you?
	•	 Which aspects of reading and thinking are hard?
	•	 Which aspects of reading and thinking do you have a lot of expe­
rience and skill in?
	•	 Which aspects of reading and thinking are new, or out of practice?
Lean into your strengths (see Section I.1.1) and enjoy this opportunity 
to grow into areas that currently feel challenging, unfamiliar, or out of 
practice using a growth mindset (see Section 1.3.2).
Next Steps
You could use a version of the Cornell Method notes (see Section 
1.3.1) to set up your journal, with the side margin and summary sec­
tions for making connections and reflection on your research.
We also explore journaling strategies in done lists in Section 2.3.3 
and map-making in Section 2.3.4.
Plato (attributed), ‘Alcibiades 1’, in Charmides. Alcibiades I and II. Hipparchus. 
The Lovers. Theages. Minos. Epinomis, translated by WRM Lamb. Loeb 
Classical Library 201. Harvard University Press, c.390BCE/1927.
Seneca, ‘De Ira’, in Moral Essays, Volume I: De Providentia. De Constantia. 
De Ira. De Clementia, translated by John W Basore. Loeb Classical Library 
214. Harvard University Press, c. 45CE/1928.
A reflection practice for reading and 
thinking: Strengths and weaknesses
47
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-3
Planning
Getting to where you 
want to go
2
Planning is an essential stage in any project, and particularly useful in a 
PhD thesis. I used to think of it as part of the thinking stage of the writing 
cycle, but I realized that it was a distinct, if hopefully short, stage. Planning 
is helpful before you start to write, but you’ll also need to come back to it in 
the structural edit stage to check that your overall text is meeting your goal 
and scope.
This section includes two kinds of planning:
	1.	 Time and task management: planning your time so you can get some 
work done, perhaps by gathering data and conceptualizing how you 
personally make progress so you can improve your planning.
	2.	 Planning what you are going to write: working out how to make a plan 
that will productively turn into an excellent thesis and not be an impos­
sible list.
Planning tends to be most effective when you start from a place that is moti­
vating or easy, and you focus on just that one thing. If you distribute your 
work so that you don’t get too exhausted or discouraged carrying it out, 
you’ll also make it easier to come back and do more of it tomorrow (see 
Section 0.1.1). Managing your energy and motivation can mean knowing 
how to stop while the momentum is still behind you, or knowing how to rest 
when you have written yourself into total emptiness.
Planning is future-focused, it’s about work we will be doing. But we often 
make our best plans by looking back at what worked best last time. So this 
chapter also includes advice on tracking your progress and using that to 
make more realistic plans for next time.
48
Planning
Whatever your situation, your speed, your planning style, whatever moti­
vates you, the planning stage will set you up for being well and writing well 
more than any other part of this book, which is why this is the longest chap­
ter. Your writing plans will be useful to help you write (Chapter 3) and for 
your structural edits (Chapter 5) too.
2.1  A mindfulness practice for planning: 
Visualizing your goals
It’s easier to get focused when you are doing a task you really enjoy, you are 
inspired, or it feels like you are definitely going to finish. So this exercise 
helps you visualize the end of your research to help motivate you, especially 
if that feels unlikely or distant right now.
	1.	 Go to the place you think you could do focused work, at a time you 
plan to be productive. Set up the space so that you could start work 
immediately, but do not start working just yet.
	2.	 Place a sheet of paper in front of you and have a writing implement to 
hand.
	3.	 Set a timer for two minutes.
	4.	 Take a deep breath in through your nose, and breathe out through your 
mouth. Then continue to breathe slowly in and out through your nose.
	5.	 Image a moment in the future when you have achieved your doctoral 
goals. Where are you? What are you doing? Who is there too? How does 
it feel? Include as many specific details as you can.
	6.	 Write, draw or diagram what this goal looks like and feels like. The lines 
and words may be representative or abstract, they may be neat or messy, 
they might make sense to your later self or not. It doesn’t matter. Let your 
pen move over the paper as you imagine that future moment.
	7.	 When the timer goes off, reflect. What did you notice? Did imaging that 
goal make you happy, motivated and excited?
	8.	 Now get to work for at least 25 minutes. At the end of the session, notice 
if you were more focused?
Many students tell me they imagine walking across the stage at their grad­
uation, with their family in the audience clapping. They are wearing their 
Planning
49
doctoral bonnet and the Vice Chancellor shakes their hand. Imagining this 
movement gives them motivation when the going is hard.
If imaging the future goal made you feel itchy, unhappy or glum, then that 
is also worth reflecting on. Sometimes I do this exercise and realize I’m 
having trouble focusing on a task because my brain is sabotaging my pro­
ductivity to help me escape a horrible future. Maybe you need to change 
your goals, or your tasks. If that’s the case, maybe today isn’t the day to get 
to work, but the day to say ‘no’ to the project, put things on your not-to-do 
list, or rethink your priorities.
Either way, visualizing your goals is a powerful tool.
Options
If you have a trusted mentor or friend, you can have a conversation 
with them. They may want to take notes or just sit and listen. They 
should give you space to speak for at least two minutes but might 
prompt you if you get stuck.
As always, if the suggested breathing is distracting or uncomforta­
ble, breathe however works best for you.
2.2  A physical practice for planning: Stepping 
yourself through your writing plan
Academic writing consists of a series of ‘logical steps’ in a ‘logical ‘order’ 
with no ‘gaps’. One way to help yourself plan is by turning those metaphor­
ical steps into physical walking steps.
Start by laying out your plan on the floor. You could use sticky notes, 
index cards, pages from your draft, figures, or articles you will cite. Arrange 
the objects into an order that seems logical to you.
Now start walking, following the path you have laid out. It often helps to 
narrate your walking journey out loud: ‘First I will discuss … and that will 
lead into needing to explain … then I will unpack … finally I will demon­
strate …’ You might find that this helps you to notice when you say, ‘oh, but 
before I can do that, I really should have explained …’ or ‘I feel like 
I’m going in circles here’.
50
Planning
Take one step, then another. Do you have to jump around, shuffle awk­
wardly, or do you feel lost? Then you need to smooth out your plan. Does your 
plan feel like a nice walk in the park? Then it’s probably ready to write up.
Most PhDs are expected to be linear. If you are doing something non-linear 
(maybe using a rhizomatic theory, or analysing networks, or using an Indigenous 
methodology), then you need to clearly signpost what you are doing so your 
reader doesn’t get lost. That narration as you walk the labyrinth of your plan 
will tell you exactly what your reader needs to know to follow you.
I recommend doing this exercise in a space where you know you won’t 
be disturbed, both to avoid people moving any of your papers until you are 
ready, and because you might not want to be watched crawling around on 
the floor and then pacing weirdly around the room!
I first learned this strategy from a fellow PhD student who would go up to 
the sixth-floor wing of the University Library in Cambridge, one of the corri­
dors where hardly anyone ever went, so he would have the place to himself. 
He would spread out his rough draft on the floor and then, clicking his fin­
gers, he would walk/dance through the draft. If he could walk it through on 
the beat, it was right. If he had to double back, if there was a beat missing, 
he knew there was an issue with his draft.
Turning the steps of your argument into physical steps can help you see 
the plan more like the way a reader will experience the thesis. The reader 
will be so grateful if they can follow along your straightforward, well-
signposted and danceable pathway!
Options
Let your fingers do the walking! Create a version of your plan and lay 
it out on your desk. Using your two fingers, walk through the thesis, 
narrating it as you go. Does it make sense? Where do you double 
back or hesitate or jump forward?
Next Steps
Return to this strategy when you are editing paragraphs to be steps in 
your argument (see Section 5.3.3).
Planning
51
2.3 Time and task management
There are only 24 hours in a day, and seven days in a week. We do not have 
infinite time. There are, however, infinite things we might do with our time. 
Doctoral study can go on forever—it was previously common for a thesis 
to take a decade to write. ‘Timely completion’ is an external constraint that 
varies from country to country.
This is a helpful realization. You can never research everything that could 
be researched, and everyone is just fitting their research and thesis into 
whatever container their university sets. Rather, a PhD demonstrates your 
ability to manage a really big, multi-year project as an emerging independ­
ent scholar, and produce an original contribution to knowledge. So how do 
you manage your time and tasks to manage a really big, multi-year project 
and do so independently?
An important part of planning is just getting a sense of how long it takes 
for you to do things, and what things need to be done. As you go around the 
writing cycles for each chapter of your thesis, you’ll slowly build up a sense 
of how long it takes you to read an article, how many words you can write 
in a day, how long it takes you to edit. You’ll get a sense of how your super­
visor likes to work, and how your writing fits in alongside your research, 
work, caring and life responsibilities. Then you are able to plan realistically 
in a way that helps you to write well and be well.
2.3.1  Setting your own time and tasks
There is no one ideal way to manage your time and tasks. You need to do 
enough work, sufficiently frequently to get the work done. If you already 
know what works for you, go for it!
If you haven’t had the luxury and challenge of setting your own working pat­
terns for a while, here’s how you can identify some patterns that work for you.
Table 2.1 invites you to reflect on your own preferences for when you like 
to do focused research or diffuse thinking, when you’d prefer to sleep, 
recharge and move. But your research may have different pattern require­
ments, or your life circumstances or other needs may present conflicts. So 
you will need to compromise your personal preferences with important 
external factors. Use these categories to work for yourself, your research and 
your life. The place, or places, where the three preferences overlap are the 
places where you will be able to get your work done.
52
Planning
You might prefer to sleep 10.30 pm to 7 am: ., but you are an astronomer 
and have to work in the middle of the night. Perhaps you are used to work­
ing 9–5, but you need to go on site visits, so you cram in some really inten­
sive data collection into a few days, and then have weeks of less intense 
work as you sort through what you collected. Maybe your hobbies involve a 
weekly choir rehearsal, but that clashes with a regular seminar at your fac­
ulty. Perhaps your preferred movement is ocean swimming, but you cur­
rently live a two-hour drive from the sea.
Whatever your situation is, it’s helpful to identify each thread of time lim­
itation. This can help you see whether you can manage to have the pattern 
you prefer at least some of the time, or if there are likely to be changes in 
your life situation coming up where you could renegotiate so you can work 
in a way that feels better for you. But also, it can be helpful to see what just 
isn’t going to be your preferred way of working right now and work out what 
your coping mechanisms are.
Ignore any advice that tells you that you ‘must’ write every day, or before 
you start your other work, or you must get eight hours of sleep exactly or you 
must write in silence or whatever. Don’t get hung up on what ‘other people’ 
think you ‘ought’ to do. When I teach time management tools in a work­
shop, I know there is so much diversity in the ways that different people 
achieve the same outcome. A PhD is an unusual opportunity to work how­
ever suits your brain and life best.
Some parts of our writing work are cognitively hard work. Grappling 
with new concepts or putting our thoughts into words usually requires inten­
sive focus. You can only work effectively on hard things like writing for a 
Table 2.1  Identify your own working pattern
Pattern
Focused 
research
Diffuse 
thinking
Sleep
Recharge
Movement
My preference
Research 
pattern
Life pattern
Other needs
Planning
53
short part of your working week. But there are other parts of the process that 
might not be so hard. Updating your reference manager, filling out compli­
ance forms, walking between your office and your supervisor’s office, and 
reading university newsletters all take time and are vital, but maybe don’t 
need so much focus.
This is helpful as you plan your time and tasks. Do you schedule your writ­
ing when you are most alert and least likely to be interrupted? What other tasks 
can you schedule into your day at times that match your focus and energy?
I find it helpful to identify both how long a task is likely to take, and how 
intensive it is likely to be. Giving a presentation, job interviews and academic 
writing are all very intense for me. I struggle to do more than one of these in a 
day. However, sitting in meetings, or going to a seminar that someone else is 
giving is much less intense for me—and it’s no issue if I do a lot of these in one 
day, or balance out some intensive work with some of these less intense tasks.
Email can be a tricky one, because email is a platform, not a task. Some 
emails are routine and require only a few words of response. Other emails 
bring tasks that involve hours of work. You can answer some emails quickly 
on your phone while waiting in line at the supermarket, and other emails 
require careful thought and half an hour to draft. So perhaps rather than 
listing ‘email’ on your to-do list, identify the kinds of work you get in your 
inbox: approvals, acknowledgements, requests, major projects, and so on.
Working for more than 55 hours each week causes your health and mental 
abilities to suffer, which negatively impacts your studies, your work, and your 
home life (Pencavel 2015; Wong et al. 2019). How those hours divide up will 
be different for everyone, and that’s okay, but you need to schedule in time 
for breaks, for self- and others-care and for fun. Even if you are part of an 
‘always on’ culture, there are ways to manage doing enough good work 
without burning yourself out. As a graduate researcher, you are probably at 
the bottom of the pecking order and are unlikely to be able to change an 
entrenched culture of everyone working ostensibly 80-hour weeks. Because 
people aren’t efficient if they are working that many hours, you might con­
sider ‘passing strategies’ (Reid 2015) to make sure you look busy even if you 
are taking a break or caring for yourself. Your productivity will keep track.
Whether you are a part-time or full-time student will make a difference to 
how you plan your time. However, even full-time does not mean 24/7. You 
shouldn’t be working every hour of the day. Both part-time and full-time 
students need to plan their research time holistically. What are the various 
factors you need to plan in?
54
Planning
For full-time students:
	•	 Two to four hours of your best time each day are going to be given to 
your research.
	•	 You can take part in the wider university and campus culture, such 
as sitting on leadership committees, going to seminars, joining extra-
curricular activities, and chatting to colleagues in the corridor.
	•	 Any outside work you do will be extras to support your time as a student, 
not the main thing.
	•	 Use ‘between times’ to add to your student experience.
For part-time students:
	•	 You may need to allocate your best thinking time to other responsibil­
ities. Intentionally carve out space to sometimes give that time to your 
research.
	•	 What is your first priority? Is it your study? How will you make a decision 
when a conflict comes up?
	•	 Make time to benefit from campus culture as a part-time student. If you 
can’t often get to your campus during the day, use video-conferencing to 
attend workshops and seminars, or plan a regular research day on campus.
	•	 Your ‘between times’ are more likely to be used for connecting to your 
current job or care situation. Are there ever good moments to connect to 
your writing or research community?
	•	 Is it best for you to explore leadership and extra-curricular activities in 
your work or community? Or is the university a better place for this? 
Perhaps you can have the best of both worlds.
It’s comforting to remember that any variation of a sustainable pattern can 
be made to work, and you’ll be okay. It’s not necessary to be biohacking 
your way to optimal sleep protocols or whatever, you can still achieve orig­
inal research and complete your PhD on time. Human bodies and brains 
are pretty adaptable, so even if you can’t work in your preferred way, it will 
work out fine.
But feeling confident, motivated and happy are important too. So if you 
have the choice, choose what you prefer. Writing a PhD thesis is hard 
enough without adding fake hurdles because of someone else’s preferences! 
If you complete a PhD, writing an original and well-researched thesis, then 
Planning
55
you get to be called ‘Dr’, and you’ll have earned it, whatever pattern you 
used to get there.
Notes
John Pencavel, ‘The Productivity of Working Hours’, The Economic Journal, 
125:589, 2052–2076. 2015.
Erin Reid, ‘Why Some Men Pretend to Work 80-Hour Weeks’, Harvard 
Business Review, 28 April 2015. https://hbr.org/2015/04/why-some-men-
pretend-to-work-80-hour-weeks
Kapo Wong, Alan HS Chan and SC Ngan, ‘The Effect of Long Working Hours 
and Overtime on Occupational Health: A Meta-Analysis of Evidence 
from 1998 to 2018’, International Journal of Environmental Research and 
Public Health, 16:12, 2102. 2019.
For more detail on working two to four hours a day or about 20 hours a week 
on deliberate practice, see:
Brooke N. MacNamara and Megha Maitra, ‘The Role of Deliberate Practice in 
Expert Performance: Revisiting Ericsson, Krampe & Tesch-Römer (1993)’, 
Royal Society Open Science, 6:8, 190327. 2019.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2017/03/05/plan-your-research-days/ and https://
researchinsiders.blog/2018/08/02/studying-full-time/
2.3.2  Writing time ‘spreaders’ and ‘stackers’
Are you a ‘spreader’, or are you a ‘stacker’? Do you prefer to spread out your 
writing time by writing a little bit every day, or to set aside a ‘writing day’ 
and stack up all your writing blocks in one go?
When I talk to writers, the question of how to structure their writing time 
is one of the most common and also one of the most contested. It’s also 
extremely varied, so whenever I refer to it, it needs some messy phrase like 
‘your 15 minutes a day’ (Bolker 1998) or ‘golden hours’ (Gardiner and 
Kearns 2010) or as Helen Sword would call it, your Air & Light & Time & 
Space (2017). But everyone agrees that there is a limited amount of writing 
energy that has to be distributed across the working week to get a draft writ­
ten (see Section 2.3.1). So here we are going to use the shorthand terms 
‘spreaders’ and ‘stackers’ of ‘writing blocks’.
A writing block is whatever writing fits in the typical ‘time box’ you 
use: whether you prefer to work in 10-minute increments, a Pomodoro of 
56
Planning
25 minutes, or something like 90 minutes. I know of at least one academic 
who would write a few sentences between each student appointment. 
I don’t recommend having a box much longer than two hours, for the sake 
of your back/eyes/bladder. Between these two extremes, there’s a pretty big 
set of options.
At the end of your block, you might get up for a quick break, and then 
return for another block, or you might finish writing for the day and go on to 
other tasks.
You might distribute your boxes across days, weeks or fortnights. Most 
people aim for between about an hour of writing across the week, up to 
about 20 hours. This might be based on the time available, or other con­
straints. Or it might vary depending on where you are in the writing process: 
for example, in the weeks before submission, most people are writing as 
much as possible. Whereas, in the experiment or field-work phase, you 
might just be quickly making notes towards a later draft.
Whether your writing blocks are tiny little mini Lego blocks or great big 
Duplo blocks, it’s now time to decide whether you are going to build some­
thing that is spread out, or something that is stacked high. Do note that many 
of us are neither totally spreaders nor totally stackers, in fact, it’s more effec­
tive if you do a bit of both!
A spreader prefers to spread their writing across their week. You might try 
to write for 15 minutes before or after work each day, or get in an hour at 
least a few days a week. Spreading the writing out makes it feel manageable 
to you. There’s a small amount of it happening a lot of the time, and this 
means you know you are gradually making regular progress. You never need 
to worry that the writing is piling up. By spreading it out, you feel you are 
always on top of the writing.
You might not be a spreader by preference, but spreading might be the 
best way for you to make progress in your current situation. If you are fitting 
your writing around other work, have small children, or are living with a 
chronic illness, there may never be long spaces for you to sit down and work 
uninterrupted. Learning to be a spreader might make it possible to write 
your PhD.
Because spreading is adaptable to these kinds of everyday writing circum­
stances, writing advisers often encourage it. But, like any strategy, it brings 
benefits and limitations. For example, if you spread things too thin, you may 
never do enough writing, even though you feel you are always writing. If 
you only write for five minutes here and there, and it adds up to maybe 
Planning
57
20 minutes a day, six days a week, then you feel like you are writing all the 
time, but added up, it’s only a couple of hours in total. That might not be 
enough to meet your deadlines, especially if you are a full-time student. Make 
sure your spread adds up to enough writing over the week to make progress.
Another challenge can be spreading out your writing in order to make 
time for the fact that you are often interrupted, but then you end up not hav­
ing enough space to focus. The size of your block isn’t important, but focus 
within the block is essential to think new, original, difficult, logical ideas 
and put them into words!
If spreading can be a good strategy, so can stacking. A stacker prefers to 
stack up their writing blocks as high as they physically can. You might prefer 
to put all your writing together with a writing day each week, or a long 
weekend each fortnight. Stacking the writing all together makes it feel man­
ageable to you. You find a task that spreads out feels messy and uncontrolla­
ble, so having it all neatly in one place feels more doable. Or you might find 
that you are slow to ‘get into’ the writing, and so you value a longer stretch 
so you can warm up and really dive deep.
You might not be a stacker by preference, but stacking might be the best 
way for you to make progress in your current situation. You might work 
Monday-to-Friday, and so stack all your writing into a Saturday session. Or 
you might find a writing intensive really helps you to get over the line. 
Because longer writing events are easier to organize than little writing blocks 
scattered throughout the day, institutions are more likely to offer writing 
retreats or intensives.
Again, there can be limitations as well as benefits. For example, if you try 
to stack the blocks too high, they become unsustainable and unstable. Your 
body and brain have limits. If you are writing for a long day or two, you will 
be really tired afterwards. If you write for too long in the day, without enough 
breaks, your eyes, hands, back and hips will all start to wear out. So pay 
attention to your stacks and keep them at a height where you know they 
won’t fall over.
Another possible challenge is if you don’t get to your stack frequently 
enough. If you think ‘I’ll do all my writing in the summer’, and then anything 
else gets in the way of writing (like taking a break, seeing family, getting 
stuck in your thinking, or getting sick), then your whole stack is endangered. 
People who don’t get to their stack regularly often also find it takes a really 
long time to get back into writing. It is helpful to get to your writing stack at 
least once a fortnight, to keep the writing momentum going.
58
Planning
Like playing with Lego or Duplo blocks, there are no limits on the ways 
you could arrange your blocks, so you don’t have to be only a spreader or a 
stacker. For example, if you go to a couple of ‘Shut Up and Write’ sessions 
each week, we could consider that like a couple of spread-out mini-stacks. 
The possibilities are endless. You might shift your spreading or stacking in 
different ways across your candidature: perhaps spreading more in phases 
when you are more focused on researching; perhaps stacking more as you 
get towards the end.
Many people use both strategies: even within a week, with little writing 
blocks scattered where you have time and then a full research day once a 
week; or across the year, like using spreading during the semester, and stack­
ing your writing time in the non-teaching periods. There is no morality, no 
shame, and no progression between a spread or a stack. Both work well in 
certain circumstances. It’s likely you will do a bit of both sometimes, or 
move between the two. This is not an immutable personality test, it’s a 
chance to identify your preferences and your practical needs, and use them 
to help you write and live.
Notes
Joan Bolker, Writing Your Dissertation in Fifteen Minutes a Day: A Guide to 
Starting, Revising, and Finishing Your Doctoral Thesis. Holt, 1998.
Maria Gardiner and Hugh Kearns, Turbocharge Your Writing: How to Become 
a Prolific Academic Writer. ThinkWell, 2010.
Helen Sword, Air & Light & Time & Space. Harvard University Press, 2017.
Other versions of this strategy are explored in:
Raul Pacheco-Vega, ‘Designing and implementing a Publications Planner’, 
2016b2016a, http://www.raulpacheco.org/2016/06/designing-and-
implementing-a-publications-planner/
Robert Boice, Professors as Writers: A Self-Help Guide to Productive Writing. 
New Forums, 1990.
Time boxes are discussed in:
Academic Writing Trouble, pp. 8–10; Level Up your Essays, pp. 124–25; and 
Your PhD Survival Guide, pp. 39–42.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2017/07/06/moving-beyond-binge-vs-snack-
writing/ and https://researchinsiders.blog/2022/06/30/are-you-a-spreader-
or-a-stacker/
Planning
59
2.3.3  Tracking your progress with ‘done lists’
You probably already plan with a to-do list, but we often find that we get 
to the end of the day and haven’t ticked everything off our list. Maybe we 
planned too ambitiously, or maybe the important tasks that actually got 
done in the day were different from the morning plan. A solution to this is 
to use a ‘done list’, also sometimes called a ‘daily résumé’ or ‘to-done list’. 
The done list is super simple. At the end of the day, you look back and make 
a list of all the things you did.
The done list helps you to:
	•	 notice all the things you actually did in the day.
	•	 celebrate the things you achieved and share your successes with others.
	•	 get a sense of what you are able to do in a day or what typically needs 
doing, thus helping you make better plans for the future.
You don’t have to wait until the end of the day to make your done list. 
Sometimes I make my done list when I’m having a mid-afternoon slump. 
What have I already done? What is urgent or important and needs doing 
before I go home? Can I go home on time?
You can write your done list as a list, use an app, or share it on social 
media for community and accountability. You might want to do your done 
list as ‘the story of my day’ or by talking your day over with a colleague. 
Your done list may be best completed each day, once a week, or once a 
month.
A done list should hit those lovely reward centres in your brain, so think 
about what you might find rewarding.
Turning your done list into a rewards chart can be a really fun way to 
mark progress. Word count might be a good way to reflect your progress, or 
you might need something more nuanced. Here is an example of how 
I tracked my productivity towards submitting a co-authored journal article in 
the summer of 2018 (see Figure 2.1):
	•	 I printed out a calendar from an MS Word template, went to my local big 
stationary store and bought a lot of little stamps. (I love stationery, so this 
part was motivating for me!)
	•	 I used a strawberry 🍓 every time I wrote about 500 words.
60
Planning
	•	 But I also needed to edit, and research. So I got a bird 🦆 every time I 
edited 1,000 words, and a panda 🐼 if I read a chapter or journal article.
	•	 In order to keep myself healthy, I knew I needed to intentionally move, 
so I got a cloud ☁ if I did 30 minutes of exercise.
	•	 The day before I submitted, the box was full, with a strawberry 🍓, a 
panda 🐼, some clouds ☁, and 10 birds 🦆 (since I read the whole article 
one last time). But there were also days I didn’t do anything at all towards 
my research.
	•	 We submitted it on the big star day ★.
This rewards chart also helps me to plan for the next time I’m submitting an 
article, giving me an idea of how much work I should expect to get done, 
what tasks will come up, and how much time it is likely to take.
You may want to do this kind of tracking every day. Or you may find that 
you just need to do this from time to time, to get a speed check to keep your 
planning realistic to where you currently are and to see how fast you are 
going.
Figure 2.1  Calendar writing tracker
Planning
61
In 2021, I kept a monthly done diary for six months. I wrote 15,000 words 
in two weeks in early January for upcoming publications; about 1,500 in 
February; and nothing at all in March. I identified what aspects make up, for 
me, a ‘balanced’ and ‘good’ life, and aspire to have something in each of 
those baskets each month: like professional development, life admin, catch­
ing up with friends, and hobbies. As I’ve already said, I’m motivated by sta­
tionery, so I used a diary with beautiful paper and a really nice pen to reward 
myself for tracking my progress.
Tracking your progress therefore has benefits in helping you recognize 
and celebrate what you got done each day, and to plan more effectively for 
the next time you tackle a similar task. You can use it to share your experi­
ences with others, to activate your rewards, and to feel like maybe you are 
doing better than you thought.
Next Steps
A narrative done list might be useful. Try ‘The story of my day’ using a 
practice like ‘The story of my thesis’, outlined in Section 3.1.
You could also try a monthly done diary, or research journal (see 
Section 1.3.7).
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2019/01/10/start-making-done-lists-instead-
of-to-do-lists/
2.3.4  Breaking down a project into smaller steps
How do you break down a big project, set goals and then plan to meet them? 
Much of the planning advice that is typically given is linear and granular, 
but in real life, there is so much diversity in how different people achieve 
their goals.
62
Planning
The first job therefore is to identify your goals. What do you want to 
achieve, and how will you know if you have achieved it? We are often quite 
hazy about our far-off-in-the-distance goals, and it can be surprising, but 
also motivating and reassuring, when we bring them into detailed focus.
For example: do you want a draft that is ‘ready to submit’ to your supervi­
sor? what does your supervisor consider ‘ready’? is that the same for both 
of your supervisors? Be clear if you actually mean ‘8,000 highly polished 
words’ or ‘all the figures and tables done with bullet points about the 
planned text’. It is essential to aim for the right thing and know you have got 
there!
Once you have a goal, there are lots of ways of being productive. Which 
path you take depends on your preferences, what works for you. I’ll explore 
three styles of being productive that I call ‘the step-counter’, ‘the steeple­
chaser’ and ‘the map-maker’.
The step-counter: The step-counter goal-setter likes to have clear, prefer­
ably quantifiable, goals, plus the ability to track them. They will be aiming 
for a daily word count, or to ‘close their rings’ or ‘get in their steps’. They 
might use writing productivity tracking programs, a count-down ticker, or a 
word-count tool. They might enjoy super-detailed lists, a bullet journal or 
writing spreadsheet.
Step-counters find the clarity and granularity of setting and tracking goals 
to be helpful and motivating. They feel in control and productive if they list 
out every task, find a time for it in their diary and then tick it off. Because 
these strategies are often quite linear and documented, they are also often 
legible to others. PhD supervisors and progress committees often ask for 
timelines, task lists and Gantt charts as a way to see that you know how to 
make progress.
If being a step-counter-style project manager is helpful to you, then that’s 
brilliant. Use any of the many productivity strategies recommended in 
books, workshops or podcasts: pick the ones you like the most.
The map-maker: Rather than making a plan by imagining where they are 
going next, some people find it more helpful to look back over where they 
have already been, like using an app to record and share your running or 
cycling route. Rather than using the app like a step-counter, to plan a route 
and check you are meeting your goals, you can just turn it on and start mov­
ing. Over time, you can build up a sense of where you go and how fast you 
get there. It creates the map from the journey. This kind of planner is going 
to find reflective tools more useful. Rather than making a to-do list at the 
Planning
63
beginning of the day, you might try making a done list at the end of the day 
(Section 2.3.3).
Rather than forecasting your progress and then ensuring that you meet the 
forecast, you can look back and see if you are on track by the progress you 
have already made. You know you will get to your goals because you have 
already mapped similar terrain. Explicitly tracking your typical habits and 
pacing and ways of getting things done can help you to recognize your pro­
gress, and feel secure and motivated to make progress again the next time 
you need to.
I use both of these styles from time to time, but more often I personally 
prefer a plan that is simple and flexible, because I’m usually a steeplechaser. 
If you find the minute detail and focus on counting distracting and stressful, 
you might find it more useful to have a sense of the big goal, over there, and 
just head off trying to get there.
The steeplechaser: A steeplechase is a kind of cross-country race where 
you pick a visible landmark (like a tall church spire) and try to get there by 
whatever way you think is the quickest. There is no fixed route. You can take 
roads, or go across fields, you might have to jump ditches or climb over fences. 
You are guessing and improvising a lot of the time, so you might find yourself 
up to your knees in mud by accident, and then get lucky with a sudden short­
cut. Using instincts, information in the moment, and an overall sense of where 
they need to be and by when, steeplechasers just get there somehow.
For example, I use a whiteboard project planner that only lists the big-
picture goals: the project name, the current step in the process and the next 
deadline. I update the step and dates as I meet each deadline, so it’s only 
ever the next big goal on the whiteboard.
If thinking about the big picture is overwhelming, you can flip it over and 
think about the smallest first step instead. For example, you could plan only 
the ‘minimum action’: something like just sitting at your desk and opening 
your draft document. In this strategy, just putting on your shoes and turning 
up for the race is enough. What happens after that is optional. Sometimes 
nothing much happens. Other times, it means you overcome that initial 
inertia and are steeplechasing your way towards your bigger goal.
If you have a non-linear or neurodivergent route to meeting goals, this 
strategy might help you. Circular, stop-and-start, or seemingly distracted 
paths all eventually get you in the right direction. Ride the productivity flow 
when it comes, pick the flowers or wander along some intriguing byways 
when it doesn’t.
64
Planning
If you’re a steeplechaser, keep the ‘ribbons and medals’ of completed 
‘races’ somewhere you and your supervisors can see them, reminding you 
and them that the process may look incoherent or disorganized, but you do 
keep meeting your goals. Don’t waste time feeling guilty if you take a messy 
or unusual path. There is no approved route, your route gets you there.
In the decade or more that I’ve been working with doctoral candidates, 
I have seen thousands of ways to make it to the finish line. It doesn’t matter 
what your style, process or speed is, it only matters that you get there. 
With a project as long and complex as a PhD thesis, you will need more 
than one kind of tool. You may need to use different strategies to accom­
modate team members or institutional guidelines. For example, you might 
use step-counting to submit a research plan, or map-making to submit a 
progress report.
I don’t think that any particular strategy is more likely to generate produc­
tive writers. You can be a careful planner and never meet your goals, a stee­
plechaser who gets discouraged and gives up, a map-maker who forgets you 
need to get out there and do stuff before there’s anything to look back on. 
You can miss deadlines and forget tasks regardless of the project manage­
ment style. You still need to do the work and keep on doing it.
And sometimes life or your health or your head will get in the way, and 
you can’t do the work for a bit. In that case, a done list or Gantt chart is less 
likely to be useful than your university health service. Whatever your time as 
a PhD student throws at you, breaking down your project into smaller steps 
will help you deal with what happens along the way to meeting your goals.
Notes
Non-linear time planning has been explored increasingly by neurodivergent, 
gender-diverse and disabled academics. See for example:
Karin Ljuslinder, Katie Ellis and Lotta Vikström, ‘Cripping Time – Understanding 
the Life Course through the Lens of Ableism’, Scandinavian Journal of 
Disability Research, 22:1, 35–38. 2020.
Jake Pyne offers a very different travelling metaphor for getting from here 
to there in, ‘Autistic Disruptions, Trans Temporalities: A Narrative “Trap 
Door” in Time’, South Atlantic Quarterly, 120:2, 343–361. 1 April 2021.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/08/26/how-do-you-break-down-
a-big-project-so-you-meet-your-goals/ and https://researchinsiders.blog/
2019/01/31/planning-vs-panic-5-strategies-for-success/
Planning
65
Next Steps
For more advice on tracking your progress and setting your pace, 
especially for step-counter goal setters, see Your PhD Survival Guide, 
Chapter 3, pp. 28–46.
2.4  Planning what you are going to write
You will need to submit plans formally for your research proposal and at 
review milestones through your candidature. You will also need to share 
plans informally, with your supervisor as you work out what you will cover 
in the next chapter, or with co-authors as you start to write up research for 
publications. But don’t discount your own, invisible, inside-your-own-head 
planning techniques like just thinking (see Section 1.3.6).
Some people use something that looks like a plan, but is actually just an 
aide-mémoire, a shorthand reminder of the map they have in their head. The 
plans I describe in this section aren’t bullet-point lists of what will go in each 
paragraph of the draft. If you use bullet points or lists, the hard bit of writing 
a thesis (the links and overall structure) is not included in the plan. What’s 
more, planning with a list creates what seems like an obvious logical 
sequence to your information. But ‘list logic’ creates descriptive, not ana­
lytic, writing. We need ‘thesis logic’, and you might get feedback that your 
writing is ‘descriptive’, ‘just a list’, ‘not theoretical enough’, ‘not contribut­
ing to a cohesive thesis’ if you plan your writing using list logics.
The purpose of a thesis is not to list interesting information, the purpose 
of a thesis is to create a logical academic argument. This section explains 
how to build narrative and dialogic logics. What’s the story of your thesis? 
Whose research are you responding to? What’s your argument? So what?
A good plan motivates you to write, helps you feel confident to write and 
directs your writing towards your readers and community.
Next Steps
You can jump forward to Section 5.3.2 to find out more about making 
a logical structure.
66
Planning
2.4.1  Dialogical planning
Researchers sometimes discount important work because it’s ‘just thinking’, 
or ‘just chatting’, but a good plan that comes out of a productive chat is 
as valuable as a plan that looks like a list or a calendar. Sometimes these 
conversations arise informally in corridors or over a cup of coffee, but you 
can also intentionally use dialogical planning as an important tool in your 
planning toolbox.
Dialogical planning uses the Socratic method: named after the ancient 
Greek philosopher Socrates, it’s a way of teaching where the teacher asks 
questions and allows the student to offer the answer. A line of Socratic ques­
tioning often starts with a big, open question, like ‘why does your research 
matter?’ As you start to answer, the questioner should then respond with 
further questions raised by your claims, pushing your thinking further. At the 
end of the dialogue, a skilled questioner will bring you back to their original 
big open question, and you will find you have an extensive, nuanced and 
rigorous answer (e.g. Plato, Theaetetus 183d–187c).
You might notice that this is a common outcome of a productive meeting 
with your supervisor. A good supervisor will help you plan your writing by 
asking good questions, listening to your answers, and then responding to 
your thoughts. But you can also have informally Socratic conversations with 
a mentor, another student, or a friend; you can even talk to yourself. You 
might find it helpful to have a ‘written conversation’ as if you were writing 
letters or emails.
Some people always do their best planning through dialogue. If you find 
that you are super articulate whenever someone asks you a question, but 
you struggle to explain what you mean when you try to write it down, then 
recording your dialogical planning sessions might help you to create mean­
ingful outlines for your first draft. Some people process information best by 
speaking and listening, and find thinking out loud is useful—although your 
culture and personality is likely to impact if this is true for you (Kim 2002).
But dialogical planning is particularly powerful for everyone in situ­
ations where you might need a more flexible or more interactive model of 
planning.
When you are trying to find words for what the issue is, having a conver­
sation can be a fantastic way to move on from ‘I have a vague hunch that 
something is going on here’. By talking it through, you can find words, firm 
up your ideas, and start to explain or investigate the research question.
Planning
67
When you need to problem-solve, workshopping your responses to a 
problem can be a great way to quickly identify, try out, and discard multiple 
approaches to the issue. Each approach is a mini-plan. In one half-hour 
coffee catch-up, you can throw around a range of mini-plans and see if any 
are useful.
When the plan needs to involve other people, brainstorming collabora­
tively and negotiating proposals with your co-authors, research team or super­
visors works well for a project where you all need to be on the same page.
In web design, we often sketch initial plans by hand or use sticky notes on 
a wall as a way of keeping the plan from looking too finished and thus get­
ting ‘set’ too early in a project. Sometimes, a really polished-looking plan 
gets in the way of your writing because it didn’t leave enough space for your 
thinking to evolve as you work through it.
So don’t discount the plans that arise from answering questions or talking 
to a colleague. Intentionally use dialogical planning and capture the incred­
ible insights that arise through dialogue. In time, you will enter ‘the conver­
sation’ of scholarly debate, you will need to produce a ‘discussion’ and an 
‘argument’. These words remind us that our research is about talking to other 
researchers, questioning them, discussing their work and answering with 
our own research. A dialogical plan can help us align our first draft with this 
final goal and with our research community.
Notes
Heejung S Kim, ‘We Talk, Therefore We Think? A Cultural Analysis of the 
Effect of Talking on Thinking’, Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 
83:4, 828–842. 2002.
Plato, Theaetetus. Sophist, translated by Harold North Fowler. Loeb Classical 
Library 123. Harvard University Press, c. 369BEC/1921.
To use ‘correspondence’ for thinking, see Foucault, Ethics, p. 214. This is 
also discussed in Section 1.3.7.
Dialogical planning is not always straightforward, it can be complicated 
by a range of factors. For example, Das et al. explores a combination of tech­
nology, pandemics and neurodivergence with practical advice on how to 
make dialogue more inclusive:
Maitraye Das, John Tang, Kathryn E Ringland and Anne Marie Piper, ‘Towards 
Accessible Remote Work: Understanding Work-from-Home Practices of 
Neurodivergent Professionals’, in Proceedings of the ACM on Human-
Computer Interaction 5, CSCW1, Article 183. April 2021.
68
Planning
Next Steps
See Section 3.3.2 for using speaking strategies and software to write 
your first draft.
Adapt the ‘ideal reader’ strategy outlined in Section 5.1 to create 
an imaginary discussion partner.
2.4.2  Narrative plans
Your PhD needs to be a coherent body of work, and this coherence is often 
explained as your ‘story’. Stories are how we communicate to each other 
and remember information. A narrative plan is helpful because you have 
to keep answering the questions, ‘and what comes next?’ and ‘why?’ If you 
know what comes next and why, you have a really robust logical sequence 
for your work.
Creative writers have explored a number of ways to plan compelling sto­
ries, and we can use their tools to help us produce better academic stories 
too. Just remember that PhD stories are very straightforward: so avoid cliff­
hangers, twists in the tale, surprises, jump scares, and too many flashbacks. 
Keep it linear.
This section recommends two different ways to write a narrative plan. The 
first strategy lets you tell the story of your thesis in a fun way that plays to 
your strengths as someone who already enjoys stories. The second strategy 
produces a narrative plan that looks and sounds more ‘academic’ and takes 
you through the process step-by-step. You might use both strategies, or pick 
the one that speaks to you.
One way to write a more compelling story is to start with an intriguing 
premise. Creative writers often do this using a ‘writing prompt’. This is a 
stem, or beginning of a sentence, that sends your writing in a particular 
direction. What would happen if you wrote the plan for your next thesis 
chapter as a story using one of the following stems?
	•	 ‘Once upon a time …’
	•	 ‘No one knew how to get there, until …’
	•	 ‘One day, a mysterious puzzle arrived …’
	•	 ‘You may have heard people say …’
Planning
69
	•	 ‘The older people of the village already knew …’
	•	 ‘It was so unfair!’
Or write your own stem that fits your project better.
Does this stem help you feel inspired to write your draft? Does it explain 
how everything fits together? Does it feel important and meaningful? Does it 
feel like other people might want to hear about your story?
If you would like to start with more structure or a more academic tone, you 
can undertake the following exercise to write a narrative outline for a chapter.
For each of the following ‘moves’, write a sentence or two to plan your 
chapter:
	1.	 How will we enter the chapter? You might use a quote, big claim, anec­
dote, exciting event or other catchy hook opening to engage the reader.
	2.	 Introduce the research object in its context. Write out the name of the 
main thing you are researching (text, experiment, case study, field trip, 
social group, piece of technology, etc.). Add any really important fea­
tures we need to know about it.
	3.	 What is the overall theme of the thesis that will carry throughout all the 
chapters? How does this chapter relate to the theme?
	4.	 What is the goal of the research object, what is it trying to do?
	5.	 What is the flaw, the thing you need to resolve in the chapter for your 
argument to work? What makes your research project so difficult it will 
need a PhD project to solve?
	6.	 What is your goal? How will you get there?
	7.	 What method or critical lens will enable you to critique or analyse this 
object? How does the lens challenge or push the object in new ways?
	8.	 What antagonists are you dealing with? Who disagrees with your 
research position?
Describe your antagonist’s views.
Deal with the problems raised by the antagonist.
Repeat for as many antagonists as required to keep your case strong and 
safe.
	9.	 What allies or supporters come alongside your argument? Who is help­
ing you to achieve your research goals?
Describe your ally’s views.
Deal with the new insights raised by the ally.
Repeat for as many allies as are useful.
70
Planning
	10.	What is the conclusion that you want this chapter to achieve? Is it a 
clear closed conclusion, or an open-ended one? (Will this chapter 
answer your research question, or does it open up further questions to 
be discussed in future chapters?)
Move towards the conclusion.
Achieve the conclusion.
	11.	Restate the conclusion in the context of the overall theme.
Do these moves help you feel confident to write your draft? Do they explain 
how everything fits together? Do they sound scholarly and convincing to 
your supervisor? Do you feel you have all the pieces?
Using either of these techniques will help you to plan your writing in a 
way that will make your first draft more coherent and compelling. A good 
plan will be inspiring and make you want to write the draft. And when you 
come to structural editing, a good narrative can help you restructure if 
needed, to continue to tell a compelling research story.
Notes
The narrative structured plan is adapted from a creative writing plan devel­
oped by Libbie Hawker, a bestselling novelist of over 30 books, in Take Off 
Your Pants! Outline Your Books for Faster, Better Writing. Running Rabbit 
Press, 2015.
See also, Lisa Cron, Story Genius: How to Use Brain Science to Go Beyond 
Outlining and Write a Riveting Novel (Before You Waste Three Years Writing 
327 Pages That Go Nowhere). Clarkson Potter, 2016.
Next Steps
You can use storytelling techniques to warm up and start your first 
draft, such as the generative writing practice, ‘The story of my thesis’ 
(see Section 3.1).
You can also look forward to structural editing strategies outlined 
in Chapter 5.
Planning
71
2.4.3  Visual plans
Visual plans are powerful tools for creating a map, overview or chart of 
your writing. A picture can capture a lot of information and present it in an 
efficient way. ‘A picture is worth a thousand words’ and a good picture can 
help you plan a thousand words of your draft.
If you are putting together figures, charts, graphs, maps, plans, schematics 
or tables, you are already analysing and structuring your information. In 
other words, a visual representation of your data is a form of planning. 
Having already created a visual analysis, you might find you can ‘write up 
the data from the figures’ as your chapter plan.
Visual planning tools can include:
	•	 circles, lines, arrows or colours
	•	 columns, grids, a matrix, or a spreadsheet
	•	 arranging index cards or sticky notes
	•	 drawing pictures or outlines
	•	 timelines and calendars
	•	 storyboards, comic strips or pictures.
Visual planning techniques should highlight the important content, and how 
your ideas relate to one another, and how they progress through the draft. 
For something as complex as a thesis chapter, you are likely to need multiple 
images. It would not be uncommon to have five to eight figures or tables in 
a chapter, each one complex and dense with meaning. So your visual plans 
are likely to need to cover similar levels of complexity and data.
An example: sticky notes are one great visual planning tool because they 
force you to break down the big story into smaller chunks, and then they can 
be arranged in ways that help you show relationships. You can layer them 
in a stack, from first to last point, set them into columns, or compare and 
Another great way to create a narrative plan is to use a ‘Tiny Text’ 
strategy like the one described in How to Fix your Academic Writing 
Trouble (2018), pp. 145–148, developed from Barbara Kamler and 
Pat Thompson, Writing for Peer Reviewed Journals. Routledge, 2013. 
See p. 63.
72
Planning
contrast pairs, for example. You might move the sticky notes around, show­
ing progression, from planned to drafted to edited, for example (like a 
Kanban system, see Ohno 1988). Or each time you write a point of your 
plan into your draft, you could take the sticky note, crumple it up and throw 
it in the recycling. Some people stick the sticky notes to their desk or a wall, 
but you can also stick them inside a manila folder and take that with you 
wherever you write.
Here is a sticky note plan I used for a complicated web project (see 
Figure 2.2). High-level headings sat on the top of each sticky note stack, 
with more detailed reminders and headings as we went down. There was 
also a column (on the right) for issues that I needed to come back and fix.
Because I find it so satisfying to mark a completed task by crumpling up 
and throwing away each sticky note, I can see my progress through this plan 
by all the gaps and empty spaces.
Figure 2.2  Using sticky notes to plan
Planning
73
The plan might not be obvious to an outside viewer, but this image imme­
diately conjured up the text that I needed to write and how I would be put­
ting it together.
Like any good writing plan, the purpose of a visual plan is to help you 
have an overview of the content, help you to structure your writing, and 
help you to feel confident and excited to write it down. If it can help you feel 
a sense of accomplishment as you make progress through your plan, that’s 
even better.
Notes
For more on Kanban from the person who developed the system, see:
Taiichi Ohno, Toyota Production System: Beyond Large-Scale Production. 
Productivity Press, 1988.
Next Steps
You might already be using a visual technique to plan your time and 
tasks (see, for example, Sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.3). Can you adapt that 
strategy to help you also plan your writing?
Level Up Your Essays has lots of other great strategies for visual 
planning. See pp. 45–58.
74
Planning
Now you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you want 
to take forward and put into practice.
Reflect on the following questions:
	•	 What aspects of planning do I enjoy? What aspects of planning do 
I not enjoy?
	•	 Does drawing or talking or telling stories give me joy? What helps 
me achieve more productive results?
	•	 Do I like breaking tasks down into small, practical pieces? Do I like 
to be inspired by the big picture? What helps me achieve my goals?
	•	 Do I feel comfortable celebrating my successes? What things do 
I enjoy doing that would be good rewards?
You might use the visual, narrative or dialogical strategies discussed in 
this chapter as reflection tools.
Reflection practice for planning: Likes 
and dislikes
75
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-4
Writing
Getting the words 
onto the page
3
We can use the term ‘writing’ for the whole writing cycle that contributes 
towards the finished thesis. But there is a specific moment in the process that 
is purely ‘writing it down’: not planning, thinking, making notes, structural 
or copy editing, not rewriting. Just writing.
For many people, this feels like a moment of truth. When your ideas come 
out of your data, your head, your gut, or your mouth and onto the page, they 
sit there in black-and-white. They can be read by others. They can be judged 
by others. First of all, they will be read and judged by you.
On the one hand, this feeling can lead to procrastination, perhaps putting 
off the scary work of writing down the words until you feel magically ‘ready’. 
But you might have noticed we are still in the first half of the book—there is 
so much more writing still to do before your draft is complete, so leaving the 
initial writing until later can leave you with nowhere near enough time to 
edit, polish and rewrite.
On the other hand, the realization that there is so much more to do can 
lead to rushing past the writing to get straight into the editing, polishing and 
rewriting stages. Ironically, rushing past the writing stage typically leads to 
very slow and painful progress, leading to you not having produced enough 
words for a PhD thesis, even though all the words you have written are very 
well edited.
This is what I have previously called the ‘perfect sentence vortex’:
You sit down to write. You read over your notes to work out what 
you’re going to say and check-up a couple of articles. You write a 
sentence. You check the sentence over, and rearrange it. You enter 
the full bibliographic details of your quotation, and double check the 
76
Writing
format in the MLA Handbook. You change a word. You go back to a 
third article to check a fact. You change a date. Then you move on to 
the next sentence. In reading over the notes for the new sentence, you 
note that ‘articulate’ would be a better word than ‘explains’, so you 
go back to the first sentence and tweak it. Then you repeat.
(‘Escape from the Perfect Sentence Vortex of Doom’ 2017)
Instead, having done your reading, thinking and planning, you should just 
write, at least for about a 500-word chunk of your draft. After you have just 
written, you can edit, polish and rewrite.
But this advice is easier to say than to put into practice. So this chapter 
gives you advice about writing strategies, and also about how to support 
your energy, emotions and beliefs about writing, which are also important 
for producing enough first-draft words.
Notes
To read more about the perfect sentence vortex, see https://researchinsiders.
blog/2017/06/27/escape-from-the-perfect-sentence-vortex-of-doom-second-
edition/ and Your PhD Survival Guide, pp. 114–116.
3.1  A mindfulness practice for writing: 
‘The story of my thesis’
This is a writing meditation, a form of spontaneous writing. Robert Boice, 
in his book Professors as Writers, develops André Breton, Dorothea Brande 
and Peter Elbow’s ‘experimental’, ‘effortless’, ‘free’ or sometimes ‘automatic’ 
writing into a useful technique for academics. A similar practice is Julia 
Cameron’s ‘Morning Pages’ from The Artist’s Way.
Spontaneous and then generative writing techniques are useful in con­
junction with more formal writing. For example, Boice recommends starting 
your daily writing session with five to ten minutes of free writing to over­
come writer’s block, or to generate ‘momentum and ideas … especially if 
you have problems with perfectionism and low self-confidence that make 
getting started difficult’ (p. 47).
Writing
77
Peter Elbow’s (1973) instructions are clearest:
The idea is simply to write for ten minutes. … Don’t stop for anything. 
Go quickly without rushing. Never stop to look back, to cross some­
thing out … to wonder what word or thought to use, to think about 
what you are doing. If you can’t think of a word or spelling, just use 
a squiggle or else write, ‘I can’t think of it.’ Just put down something.
(p. 1)
It’s alright if you start and don’t have anything to say yet. Boice gives the 
example of one of his workshop participants, who wrote:
I don’t really know where to start. This writing does not come easily 
to me. My mind is blank. What should I write about?
(p. 46)
No one else will ever see this writing, so just keep going. Persist, and the 
writing will often start to flow.
So how do you start with generative writing?
Get out a new document: whether that’s a sheet of printer paper, a page in 
your notebook, or a new document in your word-processing software. Have 
a pen, pencil or keyboard to hand. Find a timer and set it for ten minutes.
Today the writing prompt is ‘The story of my thesis’.
Now, start to write. What is the story of your thesis? What is its origin, its 
current situation, its future?
Keep going until the timer goes off.
Well done, you did some writing!
Decide if you need to do anything further with this writing. Did it just 
help clear out some irrelevant thoughts? Did you download a to-do list or 
identify a problem? Or did you write a sentence or a few words that you 
want to transfer into your formal draft?
You might keep the paper in a safe place, or you might throw it away—it’s 
up to you.
Options
You can write on a computer, with a pen and paper, or using voice-
to-text (see Section 3.3.2).
78
Writing
Notes
Julia Cameron, The Artist’s Way: A Spiritual Path to Higher Creativity. Profile, 
1992/2020.
Peter Elbow, Writing Without Teachers. Oxford University Press, 1973.
This section builds on Robert Boice’s ‘Spontaneous Writing’, in Professors as 
Writers, pp. 41–48.
3.2  A physical wellbeing practice for writing: 
Finding the perfect set-up to write, for now
As I write the first draft of this section, I am in an online writing group. 
Someone is in bed with their camera off. Someone is on the sofa. People are 
alone in a room, or sharing with others. People are drinking water, tea, coffee 
and chai. People are eating snacks.
Before you sit down to work at your computer, check in with your task, 
time, energy, body and mind. What would make your writing five to ten 
percent more productive? What would make your writing five to ten percent 
more joyful, luxurious, or comfortable?
This is not a forever plan, just for the next 25 minutes of working.
	 1.	Where could you work?
Inside or outside? In the office, the library, a café, a study, in your car, 
in the kitchen?
	 2.	What furniture set-up will be most supportive for the next 25 minutes?
Desk, sofa, kitchen table, bed, floor?
	 3.	What accessories will be most supportive for the next 25 minutes?
Cushions, blankets, footstools, lap trays, side tables?
	 4.	What visual aids will be most supportive for the next 25 minutes?
Lamps, glasses, magnifying glasses, printouts, book stands, extra screens?
	 5.	What hearing aids will be most supportive for the next 25 minutes?
Headphones, speakers, earplugs, playlists, white noise?
	 6.	What about smells?
Do you have an oil scent or incense that helps you get in the mood? 
Maybe the library or café has a good smell. Or would you like more 
fresh air? Is there something in the room you might want to remove so 
it doesn’t smell?
Writing
79
	 7.	What food and drink will be most supportive for the next 25 minutes?
Tea, coffee, soda, water, snacks, chocolate, gum. Do you need a proper 
meal?
	 8.	What other living beings will be the most supportive for the next 25 
minutes?
Is your pet a help? What about the kids or office mates? Does it help 
to have a virtual room of writing companions or the hubbub of people 
getting on with their days? Or would an absence of other people help?
	 9.	What temperature will be the most supportive for the next 25 minutes?
Is it time to open or close a window? Turn off the heating or turn on a 
fan? Throw on a pair of gloves or take off the hoodie?
	10.	What else will help you feel more physically supported in this space?
Maybe you wish you had some hand cream or a throat pastille or a 
bathroom break. Maybe the piles of papers are in the wrong place or 
there are too many empty coffee cups on the desk.
	11.	Now do it. Move to the place you want to work. Set up the space to 
support you. Collect everything you need. Remove everything you don’t 
need. Shut doors, open windows, move things around, draw bounda­
ries, welcome things in.
	12.	Take a deep breath. Settle into your working space. Arrange your body 
in the furniture, arrange your tools on the working surface. Make any 
last adjustments, clean your glasses, tilt the angle of your screen, push 
up your sleeves, take a sip of water. Go.
At the end of the 25 minutes, reassess if there is anything you can change 
about this plan if you are going to continue writing.
3.3  How to write: Different strategies
Here are some ways to think about writing that can be supportive of wellbe­
ing, that play to your strengths, that give you the time and place to write, that 
take a playful, experimental or growth-mindset approach to writing, and that 
embed your writing in your body, emotions, preferences and community.
Getting words out of your head and onto the page is the only part that no 
one else can participate in. Yet that doesn’t have to mean you are lonely or 
unsupported. You can write alongside others, or be connected to a writing 
community to help motivate you.
80
Writing
3.3.1  Some version of the terrible first draft
One frequently recommended way to ‘just write’ is by just getting out a terri­
ble first draft. You can call it ‘the zero draft’, Boice calls it ‘generative writing’ 
(1990) (discussed in Section 3.1), or Anne Lamott calls it the ‘Shitty First 
Draft’ (1994/1995). Although there is good evidence for using this technique, 
people are often resistant to trying it out. Such terrible first drafts are a par­
adoxically nuanced writing tool for something that is intentionally terrible.
Some first drafts are actually rubbish and do need to be thrown away. This 
is not necessarily a bad thing, though. They are still useful for identifying and 
solving writing problems. Truly terrible first drafts are most likely when you 
are starting or restarting your academic writing.
For example, you might intentionally choose to produce a terrible first 
draft for getting back into the writing habit, breaking writer’s block, or warm­
ing up. The writing meditation at the beginning of this chapter used genera­
tive writing techniques to help get the writing going, not necessarily to 
produce a usable draft. I wouldn’t do this for longer than an hour on pur­
pose, but you might find you’ve spent a few days this way by accident, and 
it’s not the end of the world!
Sometimes the draft isn’t good because you needed to clear out a block­
age first. This is particularly useful for sections you have put off for too long. 
There’s often a wodge of emotional and intellectual gunk encrusted around 
it. Putting it onto paper collects and stores the gunk, allowing the chapter to 
flow more freely. Now all that shit is out of the way, you can write better stuff.
If the draft is really bad, it might be evidence you are not ready to write 
yet, especially if you are less than six months into a new project. Maybe that 
whiny voice in the back of your head telling you, ‘I should be writing’, is 
wrong this time. You may need to do more research, reading, thinking or 
planning first.
If a draft isn’t working, it might be because you are on the wrong track 
and need to rethink your plan or approach. It’s amazing how your beautiful 
plan can come undone when you actually start writing.
If you are in a discipline where the analysis is done through the writing, 
you may need to produce a draft just to have done the thinking-through-
writing. This is a significant step, particularly in disciplines where a large 
part of the intellectual work is about wrestling concepts or information into 
an academic argument. However, these drafts are often not very good in 
terms of writing.
Writing
81
If your plans are rarely accurate at predicting what the article or chapter 
is going to look like, a really rough first draft can help you to know the size 
and shape of the work. I tend to underestimate how long sections need to 
be, but I write with a co-author who tends to overestimate how much 
research needs to be crammed into a single article. We don’t know how 
long our drafts will be from the plan, only when we have written it.
It’s common to produce something that is pretty rough, but still has a lot 
of usable content. The draft still needs editing, polishing and rewriting (of 
course), but it’s a first draft on the right track. About half of the writing work 
has been done. After some light work, it can be shared with others to see if 
you are on the right track. If you have a co-author or supervisor who isn’t 
bothered by rough work, you can get feedback before you’re too invested in 
the draft to consider starting again, radically changing direction, or ditching 
a whole section if you need to.
Unfinished work is more stressful and has a higher cognitive load than a 
finished draft (Zeigarnik, 1938). Many people find editing easier than writ­
ing, and even rewriting is easier because you have something to react to, 
rather than facing a blank page. So if you can produce a rough draft early 
on, you will feel more confident about completing the project.
Sometimes, most likely towards the end of a thesis project, your ‘terrible 
first draft’ will be a ‘not so bad after all draft’. You still need to edit, rewrite, 
refine, consult, revise, polish, but each step will be easier and faster. As you 
get more experienced with academic writing genres, you should find this 
happens more and more. Your first systematic review paper is really hard, 
your 20th should be much easier!
All of these kinds of terrible first drafts are useful for getting started, mak­
ing progress, solving problems, being a good colleague, and writing like a 
researcher. This is one of the most useful, liberating and empowering tech­
niques to help scholars and students to move their work forward, so I encour­
age you to add this to your repertoire of writing techniques.
Notes
Robert Boice, Professors as Writers, pp. 40–72. 1990.
Anne Lamott, Bird by Bird: Instructions on Writing and Life. Anchor, 1994/
1995, particularly pp. 16–32.
Bluma Zeigarnik, ‘On Finished and Unfinished Tasks’, in WD Ellis, editor, 
A Source Book of Gestalt Psychology, pp. 300–314. Kegan Paul, 1938.
82
Writing
Next Steps
Perfectionism, self-doubt or writer’s block at this stage often indicate 
a desire to avoid having to revise and rewrite our work. Chapter 7 
offers other mindsets that might help.
If a draft is truly terrible, you can use some of the editing tech­
niques outlined in Chapter 5 to see if you can work out what you 
should be doing instead, or go back to Chapter 2 and see if you can 
find a strategy to make a new plan and then write a new draft.
Plan for plenty of time to edit, polish and rewrite. Terrible first 
drafts often come in a bit of a rush, but editing works best if you 
can take your time and have lots of breaks (see Chapter 4). Put your 
editing hat back on after a few hours of terrible first-draft writing 
to be sure you don’t spend weeks producing unusable stuff (see 
Section 6.1). If you are your own worst critic and delete too much, 
try being ‘your own best critic’ (see Section 5.3.1) or try to find a 
supportive but critical writing mentor who gives good feedback (see 
Section 7.3.1).
3.3.2  Your writing software can support your wellbeing
What is the best writing software? When we spend so much time writing and 
editing, it’s essential that we use tools that support us to be effective. What’s 
more, so many programs now automate research jobs that used to take 
hours of focused labour: finding secondary literature, accessing archives, 
formatting references, finding themes in NVivo, making graphs, editing 
images, running complex equations, formatting documents, finding spelling 
and grammar issues. Surely there’s some software that basically writes the 
thesis for you? Well, not yet!
That being said, actually it’s never been easier to get the ideas in your 
head out into text. Because there are so many different options, you can 
think about how your writing software can support your wellbeing, by mak­
ing your writing easier, or more supportive, or more flexible.
Writing
83
Most of us think about typing as the main way to get words onto the page 
for a PhD thesis. You might use a laptop for its portability. Or you might type 
on a desktop computer with multiple screens and a separate keyboard and 
mouse, which is often supportive for your body. You will probably be using 
MS Word, LaTeX or Scrivener to organize your information and incorporate 
the references and notes for your final drafts. However, there is no reason 
why you have to start in those software packages if they aren’t the most sup­
portive for you. For example, researchers commonly use Google Docs for 
the first drafts of a collaborative document.
You might type on your phone or tablet, especially if you are an avid tex­
ter or often get your ideas while sitting on the bus or waiting between meet­
ings. You can use the notes app on your phone. You might find that you have 
produced a useful paragraph or two in an email to your supervisor. Sometimes 
I write a first draft as a social media post tapped into a phone app.
If you find that you can explain concepts and arguments more persua­
sively through speaking, you might use voice-to-text functions. Voice-to-text 
is also good if you prefer to write hands-free, like if you get your best writing 
inspirations while driving, or to give your wrists a break. Most phones now 
have excellent voice-to-text apps, or you can use the ‘Dictate’ function in 
word processors. You will need to correct the draft, especially any unusual 
or technical language, but this is typically a fast and straightforward task.
Many people were trained to write by hand for end-of-school examina­
tions. You may still find that this skill of downloading structured and academic 
thinking onto a sheet of paper in an hour or so of intense writing is a good 
way to get a first draft written. Other people find that writing by hand gives 
them easier and quicker ways to move between writing and drawing, or to 
use characters that are slow to add in the computer but are fast by hand (such 
as mathematical symbols or Chinese-language characters), so a handwritten 
first draft might be logical. You can write the first draft by hand. If your first 
hand-written draft is quite legible and tidy, you can also make use of Optical 
Character Recognition. Many tablets now offer this function if you write with 
a stylus onto the tablet screen, but you can also write on paper and scan the 
image using your phone scanner. Again, you will need to correct the draft, 
especially any unusual or technical language, but this is unlikely to slow 
down the process significantly. If your handwriting is hard for the computer to 
read, you may need to retype it, but that’s a chance for an easy rewrite.
84
Writing
Perhaps you are writing on your reading: annotating PDFs on a tablet, 
taking structured notes, or adding comments in your reference management 
database. The summaries and any text that arises in response to your reading 
and research might get drafted there first (see Section 1.3.4).
Almost all of these formats are moved easily between platforms, a simple 
‘export’, or copy/paste, and suddenly it’s all appeared in your thesis! This is 
why it doesn’t really matter what software you use to get the writing down, 
all of these are excellent options for getting that first draft written.
The hard part of the first draft is the act of putting your research and ideas 
into academic prose. Whether you do this via a keyboard, touch screen, pen 
or microphone is irrelevant to the final product. So it’s worth exploring dif­
ferent options, and keeping up with technology as it improves, so you can 
work where and how you write most easily or most productively, navigating 
around other responsibilities. Of course, you will still need to have put in 
the time and the motivation, and still need to have done the reading, think­
ing and planning work—but you can get the writing done.
Next Steps
This section will be obsolete soon, so do keep up with the latest 
developments. Imagine whatever you wish were possible, it’s likely 
someone else has created it, or is about to.
Of course, these different ways of working are not beholden to 
modern technology either. For example, bell hooks discusses writing 
her first drafts long-hand and then reading them aloud in Remembered 
Rapture: The Writer at Work (Henry Holt, 1999, p. 36).
3.3.3  Writing with others
While getting words out of your head and onto the page is something only 
you can do, you don’t have to do it alone. Here are some ways to write with 
others during your PhD journey.
Writing
85
There are many co-working spaces on campus, whether that’s a graduate 
student office, a carrel in the library, or a café table. It can be helpful to have 
a sense of people around you, also at work, even in a diffuse way.
Writing with other people can help you to make writing more fun, give 
you external cues about when to start work and how long to keep working, 
do it with other people, and break down the thesis task into one writing-
meeting-sized chunk.
You can intentionally join a writing group. You could set up a small 
writing group with some friends, join an official program run by your 
department, or be part of writing groups that might exist for creative writ­
ers or researchers in your city or online. Having a time, a place and a task 
can be helpful for productivity, as is the sound of people around you 
tapping their keys and getting on with their writing tasks. It’s also useful 
to have this time set aside—if you are in a meeting with your writing 
group, you can say no to other tasks and meetings. Many departments 
also offer multi-day writing retreats or intensives, which can supercharge 
your productivity.
If you prefer to write alone or in silence, you can still benefit from writ­
ing with others in asynchronous ways. If you are co-authoring an article, 
or presenting drafts for discussion to a supervisor, then you are also writ­
ing with other people. You can choose a writing buddy or accountability 
partner, and meet up periodically to swap drafts. Again, other people are 
helping you to set deadlines and divide up the task into chunks by coming 
alongside you to do work that is parallel to yours.
Many writing groups create spaces where people go to complain about 
writing rather than doing writing. These group sessions are sometimes 
cathartic, and sometimes toxic. This is not the kind of writing community 
I’m advocating here. Instead, we should encourage an environment 
where each of us collaborates on the motivation, time, energy and respon­
sibility of getting words onto the page. We can acknowledge that it can 
be difficult, but we then encourage each other into actually doing the 
writing. Once the writing is done, we celebrate each other’s achieve­
ments, and our own. I encourage you to keep your writing meetings for 
writing.
86
Writing
Other people can be powerful supporters when we need to ‘just write’, 
and we can be powerful supporters for them to achieve the same result. 
Whether in-person or online, whether together or asynchronously, we can 
create active, productive writing communities that enable writing to hap­
pen, and celebrate it when it does.
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2017/06/14/generative-writing-and-
shutupandwrite-second-edition/
Figure 3.1  Non-human writing companions also count. 
This is Jellycat ‘helping’ me edit this book.
Writing
87
Now you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you want 
to take forward and put into practice.
Reflect on the following questions:
	•	 What was your word count at the beginning of this writing session? 
What about at the end? Does the change in the number convey the 
progress you made on your writing?
	•	 If you were working with an accountability partner, how would you 
describe how your writing session went?
	•	 Does the way you talk about your writing productivity reflect how 
you really feel about it? What, in fact, do you really feel about it?
Tracking our progress and having a writing accountability partner can 
be great reflection tools. See Section 2.3.3 for other ways to track your 
progress.
Reflection practice for writing: How to 
value ‘just writing’
Next Steps
Working with others is discussed more extensively in ‘It takes a vil­
lage’ (see Section I.3).
Your PhD Survival Guide has more information if you’d like to 
know more about how to set up a writing group like a ‘Shut Up and 
Write’ group (pp. 125–126) or to find out about what happens at a 
writing intensive like ‘Thesis Boot Camp’ (pp. 2–4).
For a long run-down of online options, see Katherine Firth, Tseen 
Khoo, Debbie Kinsey and Hannah James, ‘Virtual Shut Up and 
Write: Now with Added Video’ on Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2020/03/29/virtual-shut-up-and-write-now-
with-added-video/
88
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-5
Recharging
Using rest to help 
you write
4
Breaks themselves are essential for resting and recharging. But sometimes 
you need to take a break as part of the writing process, as a way of getting 
‘critical distance’ from your writing in order to identify what’s not yet great 
about it and how to fix it.
If you are a busy researcher who thinks they don’t have time for a hobby, 
or to exercise, or to sleep, then this chapter is about showing you why these 
elements should be planned in as part of your working pattern, as tools to 
help you get your thesis written. Taking a critical distance break looks very 
much like rest or chores or exercise, but the purpose here is not to relax or 
get your house clean or get fit, but rather to be able to see your draft clearly, 
solve problems in your argument or energize you to write for a bit longer. 
(But they do have great wellbeing side-effects, so take that as a matter of 
grace!)
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2019/09/12/the-critical-distance-break/
4.1  A mindfulness practice for recharging: 
‘Seeing the forest for the trees’
The English-language proverb ‘they can’t see the forest for the trees’ means 
that someone is so involved in the details (the trees) that they can’t see the 
Recharging
89
big picture (the forest). As a PhD researcher, you need to spend a lot of time 
looking at tiny details. Microscopic particles, items of code, codicils, foot­
notes, referencing databases and commas. Sometimes you need to look at 
the bigger picture, like when you are editing the thesis as a whole. But the 
big picture is bigger than that. The big picture is your whole life, your whole 
community, all human knowledge and beyond, to the whole universe.
This is a meditation exercise for putting your work into context.
Find a comfortable position. Maybe you are seated or lying down. Add 
any cushions or rugs to support your body. Maybe light a candle or open a 
window. Add music or white noise or silence.
	•	 Keep your eyes open and look around you. Notice any colours or shapes.
	•	 Listen to the noises of the space around you.
	•	 Touch the floor or the furniture you are sitting on.
	•	 Take a breath in through your nose and see what you can smell.
	•	 Notice your tongue, what can you taste?
This is here. This is now. This is your body, your space, your time. Acknowledge 
yourself without judgement, this is where you are, and you are welcome.
Cast your mind a little bit wider. Who else is in your building? Acknowledge 
them without judgement, this is where they are, and they are welcome.
Cast your mind a little bit wider. Who else is in your street or campus or 
neighbourhood? It may help to imagine them from above, or to follow just 
one sense, like the sight or sound of people. Acknowledge the people with­
out judgement, this is where they are, and they are welcome.
Cast your mind a little bit wider. Who else is in your city or state or coun­
try? Acknowledge them without judgement, this is where they are, and they 
are welcome.
Cast your mind a little bit wider. Who else is in your world? Maybe you 
can imagine the whole globe? Acknowledge the people without judgement, 
this is where they are and they are welcome.
	•	 Now, bring your attention back to your tongue, what can you taste?
	•	 Take a breath in through your nose and see what you can smell.
	•	 Touch the floor or the furniture you are sitting on.
	•	 Listen to the noises of the space around you.
	•	 Look around you, notice any colours or shapes.
90
Recharging
From where you are, here and now, but with the awareness of your context 
of this much bigger picture, bring your mind to your research project.
Often, it is when we see our research from a long way away that we see 
it most clearly.
Your research might seem relevant and urgent, or small and arcane—
either is valuable. Notice without judgement.
You might try this exercise before taking a weekend or some time off. You 
might also try it as you are coming back to your research after a break, to 
help you remember the big picture of why you are doing this project and 
how it fits into the big picture of your life, your community, the world and 
beyond.
Notes
For the Collins Dictionary definition of ‘can’t see the wood for the trees’, 
see https://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english/cant-see-the-wood-
for-the-trees.
Options
If the suggested breathing is distracting or uncomfortable, breathe 
however works best for you. Or you might find that this visualization 
technique is helped by adding a more intentional breathing exercise 
(see Section 5.2).
Sometimes this practice is done as a loving kindness exercise (see 
Section 7.1), sending wellbeing and safety to each group of people as 
you imagine them.
4.2  A physical well-being practice for 
recharging: Mindful washing up
When we are planning, we are focused on the future. When we are edit­
ing, we are looking back at the past. In his classic book The Miracle of 
Mindfulness, Thich Nhat Hanh points out that we are only alive, in our 
Recharging
91
bodies, in this present moment. It is therefore essential to come into the 
present and inhabit it if we are to rest and recharge. Take a moment where 
you don’t rehearse what you have already done, or go over everything still 
to do, and just do one simple small task.
Thich Nhat Hanh teaches:
While washing the dishes, you might be thinking about the tea after­
wards, and so try to get them out of the way as quickly as possible 
in order to sit and drink tea. But that means that you are incapable 
of living during the time you are washing the dishes. When you are 
washing the dishes, washing the dishes must be the most important 
thing in your life.
(p. 26)
This is not ‘washing the dishes in order to have clean dishes’, this is choos­
ing to ‘wash the dishes in order to wash the dishes’ (p. 5).
Notice the cup in your hand. Notice the temperature and feel of the water. 
Notice the sounds. Notice the smells. Notice how your hands move the cup 
to wash it, how things are dirty and then clean, soapy and then rinsed. 
Choose to dry the dishes or mindfully put them to drain.
There, you have been present. What makes this time special is not the 
beauty or importance of the task, but the fact that we have decided to make 
this time worthy of our attention and care.
You can choose to go on being mindful. Do each task—eating, drinking, 
resting—as if it were, at that moment, the most important thing in your life. 
Or you can find the still point, when you need it, by ‘washing the dishes to 
wash the dishes’.
Options
Thich Nhat Hanh has lots of examples of when you can be mindful: 
drinking tea, sweeping a path, planting mustard greens, eating a 
tangerine and going to the toilet are all memorable examples he 
uses in The Miracle of Mindfulness. But he also advocates for it 
in difficult circumstances, including protesting injustice or being 
imprisoned.
92
Recharging
Notes
Thich Nhat Hanh, The Miracle of Mindfulness. Penguin, 1975/2020.
4.3  Recharging: Different strategies
Incorporating recharging strategies into your everyday working pattern is 
essential for life and survival (see Section 2.3.1, Table 1). There is a short list 
of things that you do have to do every day for self-care. You do need to sleep; 
you do need to eat, probably multiple times; you will need to do some 
hygiene tasks like washing your hands, cleaning your teeth, and cleaning 
away food scraps. It’s good if you can get up and stretch a couple of times a 
day, and try to get some fresh air and sunlight if you can. Make contact with 
another human being. That’s about it.
Recharging is more than just basic maintenance. It should be an integral 
part of your writing practice. This chapter is about how to make break­
throughs and improve the quality of your writing by intentionally incorpo­
rating recharge strategies into your writing practice.
Some people hesitate to put down their writing tools because they are 
unsure how to pick them up again after a break. So this chapter also offers 
strategies for returning to work with care.
4.3.1  The critical distance break
Critical distance is a well-known idea in sociology and humanities research. 
Gaining distance is vital when the researcher is ‘too close’ to the subject to 
be able to make analytical comments about it (Biesta 2007). You can’t be 
critical without being able to step back and assess a situation.
Whether your PhD research is deeply subjective or highly clinical, you 
will be immersed in the day-to-day details of your work. You will be 
enmeshed in ‘normal’ ways of thinking and operating in your context. You 
will be right up there at the coal-face of your writing, your notes, your sam­
ples, your data, your code, your tables, your themes, your transcripts. But 
then you will have to step back through analysis, reflection or theory before 
writing up your research.
Recharging
93
Your own researcher identity Is also caught up in the details of your writ­
ing: your personal career success or failure, the relationships with your 
supervisor and other researchers, your sense of yourself doing a ‘good job’. 
You might have deep feelings about your research topic. And this is essential 
to the research process.
But you also need to be able to look at the bigger picture. How does this 
compare to other works your peer reviewers or examiners have seen? This 
idea makes sense to you, but can you get a reader to understand it? How 
might other researchers use this discovery? How is this work relevant to 
grant funding bodies’ priorities? When you are close to the details, it’s hard 
to get perspective on the bigger picture.
It’s hard to make critical judgements about your own work when you are 
too close to it. ‘You can’t see the forest for the trees’—you can’t get a picture 
of what the forest looks like when you are walking in it. But if you can get 
some distance, by standing on a nearby mountain or getting up in a helicop­
ter, then you can start to see the bigger picture. One of the best ways to get 
that distance from your research is by taking some time away from it.
We know it’s difficult to task-switch, going from writing to editing or from 
creating to critiquing, so you will usually be inefficient at both if you try (see 
Section 0.1.2). Taking a break is paradoxically the quickest and easiest way 
to give yourself that critical distance.
A critical distance break is some time off that helps you distance yourself 
from your writing or thinking. It can be a few hours, overnight, or a two-
week holiday. You come back refreshed, with a fresh eye, which makes you 
less likely to miss mistakes, more able to make new connections or solve 
problems. Things that were hard to see, or hard to articulate, often fall into 
place after a critical distance break. This is why sleeping on it, going for a 
walk, or coming back tomorrow can be really effective strategies to break 
through writer’s block, or to problem-solve thinking.
Giving yourself a critical distance break between tasks means you have 
time to slightly forget what you thought you were doing. So you start to 
approach your work as a reader, not a writer. When you have critical dis­
tance, you are less likely to be caught up in how it feels to do the writing, so 
you are more likely to see how good what you wrote actually was. This 
works both for people who tend to hate their writing, and people who tend 
to be in love with it. If the reason you can’t see straight is because you are 
exhausted, or stressed, or sick, then the break is also sick leave, a mental 
health break, a holiday.
94
Recharging
A critical distance break can help you:
	•	 be more creative
	•	 approach things from a new angle
	•	 catch more mistakes
	•	 be more efficient
	•	 be more critical
	•	 sound more scholarly
	•	 address your reader
	•	 see the bigger picture
	•	 make connections
	•	 not be so overwhelmed by difficult emotions
	•	 feel in control of your research
	•	 have the energy to have another go
	•	 … and much more!
While it’s clearly very useful, in an academic culture where working all the 
time is valued, taking time off can feel like a career-limiting move. If it was 
hard to take time to do the invisible work of ‘thinking’ outlined in Chapter 1, 
it’s even harder to take time to do absolutely nothing! So I often get quite 
a strong negative reaction when I recommend a mini-break from the thesis 
for a few days. Answers range from ‘I am a hard worker, I don’t take breaks’ 
to ‘my supervisor would be so frustrated if I took a holiday, I’m already so 
behind!’ And I understand that. I really do. But I also know that there are 
times when taking a break—a ten-minute walk, a half hour nap, a night at 
the movies, a long weekend away—can be much more effective than work­
ing through.
So instead of saying ‘why don’t you have a rest’, I started to prescribe a 
critical distance break. This is the kind of break you take that is actually a 
part of your process. A critical distance break is the time you need to be able 
to see your work from the outside.
The longer you have, the more effective it will be at getting away from 
your work. You probably don’t need a lot of time for small tasks or small 
sections of work and getting too far away from your work can be counter-
productive while you are working to get immersed in it. However, if it’s time 
for a final structural edit of your entire thesis, it’s probably a good idea to 
take at least a couple of weeks, or you just won’t be able to get enough 
space between you and your draft.
Recharging
95
When you are stuck, exhausted, confused, blocked or struggling with any 
aspect of your research, why not try a short critical distance break? It’s one 
of the most effective tools in my personal toolbox and can be transforming 
for your draft and your life.
Notes
Gert Biesta, ‘Bridging the Gap Between Educational Research and Educa­
tional Practice: The Need for Critical Distance’, Educational Research and 
Evaluation, 13:3, 295–301. 2007.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2019/09/12/the-critical-distance-break/
phdsurvival60-62
Next Steps
Return to Section 4.1 for a technique to help you ‘see the forest for the 
trees’ in your imagination.
4.3.2  Make space to recharge by saying ‘no’
If you are going to take time to recharge, you need to plan not to do certain 
things. You need to say no to some things, and put up boundaries around 
your time and energy. So often people talk about boundaries like they are 
unfortunate negative limitations, all about saying ‘no’ and ‘no more’. This is 
one way of considering boundaries or edges, that an edge is an affront, that 
it should be ignored in pursuit of eternal growth. But there are other ways 
of thinking about boundaries. For example, as a literary scholar, I work on 
poetry, and the thing that is precious about a poem is its limitations. You 
only have a few words, they need to be in a certain order, and the more 
restrictive the order, the more difficult and therefore prestigious the poetry 
form is.
Similarly, I think about one of my very favourite kinds of food, the Japanese 
train-station bento box. Figure 4.1 is a picture I took in Japan as I was taking 
the Shinkansen from Kyoto to Tokyo, perhaps the best bento box of my life. 
96
Recharging
Each little morsel was perfect, framed by its lacquer-like box and encased in 
a paper patty. I loved how each piece was arranged to be a complete picture 
in its own right, with just a tiny sprinkle of finely chopped herbs. And I loved 
that everything wasn’t smushed together as a big meal, but a series of tiny 
meals. Every food item was deliberate and pretty, and felt like a special treat.
And so it’s worth thinking about the daily tasks as quotidian as your 
train-station snacks. The emails, to-do items, meetings and edits can smear 
all over your day, there’s always more of them. Or you could choose to put 
them in a frame. Each one is a choice morsel, deliberate and delightful. 
A thing you do on purpose and savour. Seeing a boundary as putting a pos­
itive frame around to-do items helped me enjoy setting them and enjoy 
having set them. I really love a good box, so I suppose it’s no surprise that 
I often use a version of the time box to set limits on my tasks and frame it 
with a little pause.
Figure 4.1  The very best bento box I ever had
Recharging
97
Another aspect of the best bento boxes is the way the items balance. 
Some bitter items, some salty, some sweetish, some palate-cleansingly bland, 
some that need chewing on, and some that feel like eating air. If you can 
arrange your to-do items across the week, each day can be a mix of things, 
so your palate is less likely to get overwhelmed or bored.
The other aspect I value is how each morsel is framed in beauty. Even 
before I opened this bento box to see the delightful food inside, I was in love 
with the box. It was so pretty. I am very motivated by pretty things, so I know 
that good stationery and a nice plant on my desk goes a long way to making 
me feel happy about the jobs I need to do. Make your joy part of the pause 
before a task, and the gap after it.
Sometimes you do just need to have a massive bowl of all-in-together 
ramen eaten in a hurry. I absolutely have weeks where the boundaries are 
soupy, and sometimes that can be delicious and nourishing too. But when I 
have the luxury of choice, I love being able to choose to eat out of a bento box.
Unexpectedly, I’ve found this attitude to boundaries is infectious. Other 
people are generally delighted to be part of the general delightfulness of my 
bento box boundaries. It’s a pleasure for them to know when I am available 
and when I am not. I’m more likely to be cheerful when I’m in the office, 
which is nice for them. They actively work to protect my boundaries because 
my boundaries are so attractive and keep my work so enjoyable—which 
means they get to have a nice time when we work together.
My series editor’s email signature promises a ‘calm inbox’, reading that 
makes me happy for her, and I enjoy that it gives me permission to answer 
calmly myself.
What metaphor would help you to change your mindset around setting 
boundaries? And then experiment with joyful, energizing boundaries. You 
might be surprised by what a calming, affirming experience it is, and how 
much other people appreciate it too.
Notes
For more on the power of poetry’s limits, see Christopher Ricks, The Force of 
Poetry. Clarendon Press, 1984/2002.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/02/18/bento-box-boundaries/
98
Recharging
Next Steps
For more inspiration on saying ‘no’, see:
Jenny Odell, How to Do Nothing: Resisting the Attention Economy. Schwartz 
Books, 2019.
Melissa Gregg. Counterproductive: Time Management in the Knowledge 
Economy. Duke University Press, 2018.
4.3.3  Do you need a nap?
Getting some rest should be the easiest thing in the world. It just involves 
sitting down. And if you have the capacity to sometimes be sitting down at 
your desk to work on your PhD, you should have the capacity to sometimes 
be sitting down and taking a break.
Perhaps take it further and take a nap. Maybe go to bed a bit early or get 
up a bit late. Maybe stretch out on the carpet and zone out, or curl up in the 
sun with a cup of chamomile tea and do nothing. Maybe slow down a bit 
before you go to bed, so you can fall asleep.
It’s the easiest thing ever. And if you are tired, it’s the thing you are longing 
to do.
If you can’t remember when you last felt rested, then you won’t be work­
ing efficiently or making your best decisions. You aren’t doing your physical 
health, your mental health or your supervisor any favours either.
At a workshop the other day, someone asked about how to get over ‘pro­
crastination’—a very common question. Any delay, resistance or pause in 
the productivity machine is labelled ‘procrastination’. But sometimes you 
are just tired. How can you tell the difference?
One way to tell the difference is by checking in. Ask yourself: are you 
procrastinating, or do you need a nap? If you are not sure about the answer, 
you can try this experiment.
Set your timer to 15 minutes. Arrange yourself comfortably on the floor or 
a sofa and close your eyes. Breathe gently and softly. You may drift off, or 
you may just have a nice rest for your eyes and brain.
When the alarm goes off, get up, and set your timer for five minutes. Have 
some water and a snack.
Return to your desk and set the timer for 25 minutes. Look at your docu­
ment. Do you feel your mind is somehow clearer, do you have more energy, 
Recharging
99
can you string together a few words? Great! Do that! Also, now you know 
your problem is tiredness and you should plan in some rest and relaxation 
in the near future. Try a critical distance break!
Naps are great for productivity, so even if you don’t really need a nap but 
you’d like a bit of shut-eye, please go ahead!
Go, get some rest. Take three days, or three hours, or three minutes. Give 
yourself permission. You’ll do better for it.
Notes
Research suggests having some caffeine before your nap, to time the chemi­
cal release of caffeine perfectly. The coffee nap has been studied a number of 
times, and this article reviews and replicates the findings:
Mitsuo Hayashi, Akiko Masuda, Tadao Hori, ‘The Alerting Effects of Caffeine, 
Bright Light and Face Washing After a Short Daytime Nap’, Clinical 
Neurophysiology, 114: 12, 2268–2278. 2003.
For me, the mental impact of caffeine is pretty strong and immediate, so I 
prefer to have my caffeine when I get up.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2014/05/12/stop-work-more-often/ and https://
researchinsiders.blog/2021/11/25/are-you-procrastinating-or-do-you-
need-a-nap/
Next Steps
If you are facing a significant block and it is procrastination, talking 
to a counsellor or health service at your university can help you find 
a recharge strategy that is right for your situation.
You don’t have to fully nap, you could use a resting version of the 
‘just thinking’ strategy outlined in Section 1.3.6.
4.3.4  Why researchers should have hobbies
People often think hobbies are for kids or retired people: for people who 
have holidays that aren’t conferences, or weekends that aren’t for grant 
writing. And yet some of the most successful researchers I know, at every 
100
Recharging
level, have hobbies, and often intense and time-consuming ones. They 
understand that working all the time is not effective. Hobbies are useful for 
helping you see where, and how, to put up boundaries on your work time, 
when you might be tempted to answer one more email instead. Plus, having 
a hobby means you have already decided what you will do when you stop 
working.
Hobbies are rewarding. They give us a sense of achievement and social 
connection: whether that’s playing a team sport, doing a crossword with 
your family, or uploading a picture of your sourdough to social media. These 
things motivate us and make us feel more confident and creative—useful to 
offset the isolating, unsuccessful or boring aspects of our research. Hobbies 
remind us that we are more than that last unsuccessful experiment, applica­
tion, draft or journal submission. We are humans with cool human lives, not 
just researchers.
Hobbies give us different thinking spaces. Doing something with your 
hands, exercising, being meditative or creative or excited or playful—these 
are all great hobby brain-spaces. When I got stuck on my PhD draft, I would 
go and dig potato trenches in my community garden, or make a loaf of 
bread. Having these hobbies was really useful for letting ideas simmer or 
untangle or recombine in different ways. Hobbies are therefore awesome for 
critical distance breaks.
Hobbies are a form of self-care. Caring for ourselves is not only about 
health, but also about happiness. Being well in our time, being generous to 
ourselves about what we enjoy: these are also essential for staying mentally 
and emotionally well. Hobbies are activities we pursue for pleasure, not out 
of duty. A hobby is not defined by what you are doing, but why you are 
doing it. Some people love to have competitive hobbies, others love hobbies 
with deadlines, and others like hobbies that have detailed rules—and yet 
other people hate all of these things! None of these aspects makes or breaks 
a hobby, it’s just about what you personally find fun.
Keep your hobbies separate from your research or side hustle. You might 
enjoy your research, but it’s important to keep spaces that are purely for fun 
or play. If a hobby becomes a job, then you need to go out and find a new 
hobby. As an adult, finding more work has been easier for me than finding 
new hobbies, so I guard my hobbies carefully.
Hobbies are great just for themselves. But if you are feeling guilty about 
taking time for a hobby, or not sure if you should rearrange your week to 
Recharging
101
make time for one, then this section hopefully encourages you to see that it’s 
a great idea.
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/03/25/why-busy-researchers-need-
hobbies/
4.3.5  Cleaning your workspace/cleaning your headspace
If you write in a café, hot desk or on the kitchen table, you will have to tidy 
your writing space regularly. If you have the luxury of a steady desk space, 
it can still be supportive to take time to clear it up in times of transition out 
of writing, before a break. Both your physical and digital workspace can 
benefit from cleaning up. Archive old papers or files. Make stacks of things 
you won’t need till later. Remove those abandoned coffee cups.
As you are tidying your space, you are thoughtfully engaging with the 
material. Do I still need this? When will I want it again? How relevant is that 
to my current project? How can I put it somewhere I will find it again when 
I need it, in a format that will be useful at that time? All great questions, and 
equally relevant to washing up and putting away that dirty plate, as it is filing 
those unread PDFs in your downloads folder.
I like Davis’s ‘only 5 things’ approach to cleaning (2020), and her strategy 
can be easily adapted to our workspaces. You don’t need to be too careful 
about your tidying up. Broad stacks of things are usually good enough.
	1.	 Discard. Put things into the bin and recycling. Use the bin/trash, delete 
and unsubscribe functions in your emails and files.
	2.	 Collect any cups, plates and water bottles. Wash them up.
	3.	 Identify any materials that have been borrowed and need to be 
returned—library books, tools, data, peer-review requests and the like. 
Put them in one place so you can find them later.
	4.	 What has a place and isn’t in it yet? Put PDFs into a folder called ‘Upload 
to EndNote’. Put your pens back into the caddy. Put books on the book­
shelf (not necessarily in order, just on the shelf!).
	5.	 What doesn’t have a place? Put them in a pile.
102
Recharging
You still have three piles of things: stuff that needs to be returned; stuff that 
doesn’t have a home; and stuff that you need to work on when you return 
to your research. If the stuff that needs to be returned is urgent, deal with 
it now. Otherwise, make a note of when it will become urgent and set it to 
one side.
The purpose of this clearing of your workspace and headspace is not to 
achieve a perfectly clean and tidy desk or computer desktop. It’s to make it 
safe to walk away from the desk while you take a break, to give you space 
to do other recharge activities, and to make it easy to return to research once 
your break is over.
As you come back to writing after a break, you’ll need to set up your 
workspace and your headspace. That means cleaning a lot of things off the 
table in front of you, but it might also mean putting a whole lot of things 
onto it! Again, it’s not about matching some theoretical concept of ‘tidy’, but 
rather about preparing your workspace.
As you purposefully clean up or set up your workspace, you are strategiz­
ing about what you need and how you will use it. You are also optimizing 
your workspace and brain-space to be able to move forward effectively with 
your thesis. Use this as a practical ritual to help you transition back into 
research after taking a break.
Notes
KC Davis, How to Keep House While Drowning: 31 Days of Compassionate 
Help. Amazon Digital, 2020.
Rachel Hoffman, Unf*ck Your Habitat: You’re Better Than Your Mess. 
St. Martin’s, 2017.
Marie Kondo, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of 
Decluttering and Organizing. Penguin, 2011/2014.
Susan Pinsky, Organizing Solutions for People with ADHD, 2nd Edition-
Revised and Updated: Tips and Tools to Help You Take Charge of Your Life 
and Get Organized. Fair Winds, 2012.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2022/02/10/is-it-time-to-de-clutter-your-to-
be-read-pile/
Recharging
103
Next Steps
Putting random draft files into big folders is the basis of the filing strat­
egy outlined in Section 5.3.4.
These physical space strategies match with digital organization 
strategies recommended in Tiago Forte, Building a Second Brain: A 
Proven Method to Organise Your Digital Life and Unlock Your Creative 
Potential. Profile, 2022.
If you need to discard something massive like the whole thesis, 
you might also want to use a ritual to acknowledge this significant 
moment (see Section 4.4 and Kondo, 2011/2014).
4.3.6  Getting back into writing after a break
People sometimes feel nervous about taking a recharge break because they 
aren’t sure how to get back into the writing at the end of it, especially if 
it’s an extended break like a long holiday, maternity leave, or years in the 
industry. Here’s a strategy I often use to help people get back into academic 
writing after a long break.
Pat Thomson and I have both used the metaphor of the ‘writing starter’ to 
talk about how a daily writing practice can activate your regular writing 
habit through feeding every one to three days (Thomson 2014, Firth 2016). 
However, you can have a sourdough starter that you only feed once a week, 
and you can also rescue a sourdough starter that has not been used for quite 
a while. It’s a process, but it’s not a particularly difficult one.
Baking bread, mostly sourdough, was an important part of my wellbeing 
strategies during my PhD journey and as an early career researcher. I’ve 
been a rather less-frequent baker since moving around the corner from some 
fantastic bakeries, though. Not so long ago, I got my sourdough starter out 
of the fridge after a month of ignoring it to find it was utterly disgusting. It 
was grey and wet and smelled of paint thinner. The top was covered in a 
white yeast and had set like concrete. My starter was in pretty poor shape. 
There was no way I could give it some flour and bake a loaf.
104
Recharging
Fortunately, I’ve been here before and I know how to revive a starter:
	•	 I scraped off the gunk on top of the starter and threw it away.
	•	 I decanted the starter into a clean container.
	•	 I fed the starter lots of organic rye flour.
	•	 I left the starter out at room temperature.
	•	 As it rose, I fed it again.
	•	 When the smell had returned to a fresh yeasty scent and the starter had 
doubled, I put it back into the fridge.
	•	 I fed it again for a couple of days. Before the end of the week, I was bak­
ing a new loaf.
These steps of reactivating a dormant sourdough starter can also be used to 
help you think about how to reactivate your writing practice after a pause. 
If you haven’t written for a while, you might sit down at your computer and 
expect words to come … they might not.
Here are some steps to take in the first few days of getting back into 
writing, using strategies from across the book but in a slightly different 
order since you are revising an existing project rather than starting from 
scratch:
	1.	 Clear out any things that stop you from getting to the writing starter. For 
example, managers often have to be super responsive to emails and 
telephone messages, but researchers don’t. Turn off notifications for 
emails and telephone messages while you are writing.
	2.	 Dust off your writing implements and see if they are still fit for purpose. 
Writing technology changes all the time, and even old favourites can 
benefit from a refresh.
	3.	 Shifting your brain from caring, resting or emailing to writing can be 
supported by shifting your place of work. Maybe go onto campus to 
help you change your brain-space back into writing.
	4.	 Put something into your brain first. For the first session, read an article 
that activates a reaction from you. Make your first task a review, sum­
mary or response to something you have read.
	5.	 Give yourself some time to let the pre-writing get going. Good writing 
prompts to get back into writing after a break are:
Recharging
105
	⚬	 The reason my research is going to make a difference in the world 
is …
	⚬	 No one has done my research before because …
	⚬	 When I started this project, I wanted to achieve …
	6.	 Feed your brain again. Don’t forget to add lunch or a cup of coffee or a 
drink of water. Do some stretches to get some blood and oxygen back 
into your brain.
	7.	 Keep your early goals comfortable and achievable. Effective early-stage 
goals could be: ‘make a narrative plan for the chapter’, or ‘write a sum­
mary of this article and explain how it inspires me’, or ‘write 250 words 
responding to a writing prompt’.
	8.	 When you reach those goals, stop! You have done a great job. Put it on 
your done list and give your writing muscles and your brain a break. 
We’re building back up to this slowly, but the writing is going well!
	9.	 Do the same thing again tomorrow. And the day after. You are building a 
new habit. If you are doing this regularly, you will soon feel comfortable 
with getting back into the writing.
Figure 4.2  The loaf I baked after rescuing my sourdough starter
106
Recharging
After a few days of this strategy, actually start writing. You don’t need to stay 
in this warm-up and re-entry phase forever. A few days should be plenty for 
most people to be in a place to ‘write for 25 minutes’, ‘produce 400 first-
draft words’, and actually start or restart their writing project.
Once you have got back into the writing and produced enough material, 
remember to give yourself another brief critical distance break before mov­
ing on to the next stage of your project, the structural edit.
Notes
Pat Thompson has written about how blogging keeps her writing ferment 
going (and her partner uses a different but comparable strategy to reacti­
vate the starter after a holiday). See ‘on bread and blogging’, 2014, https://
patthomson.net/2014/10/27/on-bread-and-blogging
You can find my own blog on ‘writing starter’ here: https://researchinsiders.
blog/2016/08/07/your-writing-starter/
I was convinced I’d learned how to make sourdough this way from Richard 
Bertinet, Crust: Bread to Get Your Teeth into. Kyle Cathie, 2007. And while 
the pages are covered in smears of dough, his advice is not what I’ve recom­
mended here, even if it’s still a great book for starting to bake bread. Also, 
never use a starter that has gone mouldy.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2017/04/19/getting-back-into-writing-after-a-
break/ and https://researchinsiders.blog/2016/08/07/your-writing-starter/
Recharging
107
Next Steps
After a long break in the middle of your writing process, you’ll be 
drawing resources from across the writing cycle as you get back into 
the rhythm of writing.
See Section 4.3.5 for other clearing-up options.
Writing technologies change all the time, check out some of them 
in Section 3.3.2.
Use the practices presented in Section 3. to find your perfect writ­
ing set-up, and maybe use the strategies around writing with others 
from Section 3.3.3. Changing workspaces is suggested in Section 7.2.
Fill your writing brain by jumping back to the generous reading 
strategies outlined in Section 1.3.5. Use a generative writing prompt 
like the one in Section 3.1 to warm up for your writing.
Early goals: ‘make a narrative plan for the chapter’ (see Section 
2.4.2), ‘write a summary of this article and explain how it inspires 
me’ (see Section 1.3.4), or ‘write 250 words responding to a writing 
prompt’ (see Section 3.1).
We discussed done lists in Section 2.3.3 and first-draft words in 
Section 3.3.1.
108
Recharging
Next Steps
For exploring organizational and research rituals, see:
Casper Ter Kuile, The Power of Ritual: Turning Everyday Activities into Soulful 
Practices. HarperCollins Publishers, 2020.
Marie Kondo, The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of 
Decluttering and Organizing. Penguin, 2011/2014.
Your PhD Survival Guide has some specific rituals for the end of your PhD 
that may also be helpful, see pp. 193–194.
Now that you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you 
want to take forward and put into practice.
It often takes us a while to get into, or out of, a state of recharging. 
Rituals can help you transition from one space to another. These can be 
very mundane or quite elaborate. Reflect on the following questions:
	•	 As you are about to finish work, what are your transition rituals to 
mark the end of the day? Do you make a done list, close a door, 
commute?
	•	 As you are about to start work, how do you set an intention for the 
time coming up? Do you state your goal or visualize your success? 
Perhaps you have a writing playlist, a special writing coffee cup, a 
writing candle, or a lucky pen.
If you don’t currently have a ritual, reflect on what you might like to 
include in your ritual.
You might use reflection tools like journaling, talking to a colleague, 
or mindfulness activities (discussed in Chapters 1–3 and Section 4.2).
Reflective practice for recharging: 
Transition traditions
109
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-6
Editing
Getting your thesis 
into shape
5
Writing is for authors, editing is for readers. Editing requires us to take a 
big-picture view, be critical about our own writing, and really think about 
the reader. This is the opposite of the writing stage: when we need to focus 
on getting each word down, where it’s fine if the writing is terrible or rough, 
and where we are thinking about what we are trying to say. Now it’s time to 
focus on how others will read our work.
Editing is the generous act of giving your writing away to readers. That 
generosity requires us to think deeply about the other person and work to 
meet their needs. You will also have your own feelings about the process 
and that is valid too!
Structural editing is about making sure your draft contains the right infor­
mation in a logical order. It gives you the big picture of what your writing is 
doing, the level of feedback that an editor will give you when you submit 
work for publication. Editing functions at the chapter, section and paragraph 
levels of writing. Questions of scope, of argument, and of producing a cohe­
sive contribution are answered in the editing phase.
Editing is when we return to our overall plan. Perhaps we see that the 
written document does not match the plan, and we need to edit our draft so 
it is closer to our plan. Or perhaps we see that our plan is no longer the most 
accurate map for explaining our research, and we need to use the editing 
stage to rewrite our plan so it is useful for progressing our draft.
Do not merge or reverse the editing and polishing stages. You can spend 
hours on formatting, word choice, and references, only to realize that a 
paragraph or a whole section is extraneous to the current project and needs 
to be cut. Be kind to yourself and your research deadlines by restructuring at 
the macro-level (whole of thesis or chapter) and the meso-level (paragraphs 
and sections) first.
110
Editing
5.1  A mindfulness practice for editing: 
Imagining your ideal reader
Who are you writing for? In the first place, you are writing for yourself. You 
will read and edit. Then your supervisors will read and edit. Eventually your 
examiners will read and make revision suggestions. If you try to write so that 
‘everyone’ can read it, you will end up not writing for ‘anyone’. Instead, it’s 
best to imagine one or two ideal readers and write just for them, to make 
something that reads better for everyone.
Let’s step into the mind of our ideal reader, using our imagination. You 
want to write in a way that addresses your reader’s questions without spend­
ing too long rehashing what they already know, and clearly explain anything 
they don’t know yet. In other words, you are using ‘theory of mind’. Frith 
and Frith (2005) explain:
We naturally explain people’s behavior on the basis of their minds: 
their knowledge, their beliefs and their desires, and we know that 
when there is a conflict between belief and reality it is the persons’ 
belief, not the reality that will determine their behavior. Explaining 
behavior in this way is called ‘having a theory of mind’ or ‘having an 
intentional stance’.
If you have ever worked in communications, you might know about ‘per­
sonas’, representations of example audience members. These are semi-
fictional, you make up a name, identity and back story, but base it on what 
you know about your target audience. I created five personas for my previous 
book, Your PhD Survival Guide, and I continue to use them to help me edit 
this book in a way that will meet the needs of a range of readers from around 
the world, studying different degrees and with different life experiences.
Maybe your ideal reader is a specific person, like a world-famous scholar 
you admire, or a colleague in your department. In that case, start out by 
identifying what you know about their academic interests: use their publica­
tions and conference presentations to work out what they think is important, 
how they understand the world, what their pet peeves are. They may even 
have a blog or social media account where they tell you more.
Maybe your ideal reader belongs to a specific group—urban geographers 
who are interested in climate change policy; viral disease researchers 
who  are also using nanoparticles; education researchers who work on 
Editing
111
intercultural early childhood learning. Research across a range of real people 
in your group and then create a fictional composite exemplar who represents 
that group.
Let’s build a persona:
	1.	 Find a picture of your ideal reader (either a real headshot or a generic 
stock photo from the internet). Put it on a page or PowerPoint slide.
	2.	 Give your reader a name, a place of work, a discipline and research 
interest, a level of seniority.
	3.	 What does your reader want to achieve? What are their biggest research 
goals?
	4.	 What are their pain points? What do they find difficult, confusing or 
unpleasant that your research might solve?
	5.	 What is your take-home message for them? Define what is new, interest­
ing or useful about your work for this reader.
	6.	 Put your persona up on a noticeboard or in your notebook. Before you 
start editing, remind yourself who you are writing for and what they 
want out of your thesis.
Use this ideal reader persona to inspire you, to help you make good editorial 
choices, and to stay connected to the community of scholars who can’t wait 
to read your work!
Options
If you are writing an interdisciplinary thesis, make sure you make at 
least two personas, one for each discipline.
Perhaps your ideal reader is beyond the academy. It’s likely that 
they won’t read about your research in its thesis form, but instead in 
a report, a flyer, a newspaper article or a video explainer. When you 
are rewriting your research, it can help to clearly imagine some new 
personas, and then write for them.
Notes
Chris Frith and Uta Frith, ‘Theory of mind’, Current Biology, 15:17, R644–
R645. 2005.
112
Editing
5.2  A physical wellbeing practice for 
editing: Three breathing exercises 
before you start editing
Breathing is amazing. Your body can breathe perfectly well on its own, but 
the lungs are also the only organ over which we have total, immediate, 
mind control. You can decide to hold your breath, or to breathe fast or slow, 
and your lungs will just do it! Decide to breathe deeply using your belly, or 
to breathe shallowly just in your upper chest, and your lungs will respond.
The connection works the other way too. Your brain checks in on your 
breathing to find out how things are going in the body, including to work out 
if it should help out by pumping out stress or calm reactions. So choosing 
your breath can help you influence your emotions. You can add to the mes­
sages you are sending your brain by explicitly thinking a useful positive 
phrase, like ‘I can take this slow if I need to, but I can definitely make pro­
gress today’, or ‘deadlines coming, let’s get a move on’.
Which feelings will help you be in the best mindset to edit today? Maybe 
you would like to be calmer, or get fired up, or to be balanced. Pick the 
relevant breathing exercise for you today. For each of the exercises, I’ll tell 
you why you’d use it, why it works and how to do it, I’ll also suggest a little 
affirmation that you can try out.
A calming breath for when writing stresses you out in a bad way: If you sit 
down to write and feel your ‘flight’ or ‘freeze’ stress reaction activate because 
you want to run away from the scary writing, then that will get in the way of 
the thing you want to do, which is stick at the desk and write some words.
If you listen to someone breathing in their sleep, you might notice they 
breathe through their nose for a diaphragmatic inhale of about a count of 
three, they pause for a count of one or two, and then they exhale through 
their nose for a longer count of five or more. Breathing this way tells your 
brain it’s probably safe enough for a mini-nap, so you turn off the flight or 
fright reaction and get into a more ‘rest and digest’ state where you can sit 
at a desk and digest your ideas into writing.
How to do it:
	1.	 Sit at your desk.
	2.	 Set a timer for two minutes, select a soothing notification sound at the 
end.
Editing
113
	3.	 Breathe in through your nose, counting 1, 2, 3.
	4.	 Pause with filled lungs for 1, 2.
	5.	 Breathe out through your nose for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or even more.
	6.	 Adjust so it feels comfortable to you, like you are in a light sleep.
	7.	 Repeat until the timer goes off.
	8.	 Return to your habitual, normal breath.
Repeat this as many times as you need to before each ‘scary’ action: sitting 
at your desk, opening the document, reading the feedback and so on.
Remind yourself: ‘I am in charge of this, even if it’s not pleasant. I can do 
this. I can get this done!’
An energizing breath for firing up your writing: I love to write angry. 
When I’m fired up and passionate, I write fast and I enjoy the writing pro­
cess, a lot of my blogging comes from rage writing. The other part of the 
‘flight and freeze’ response is the ‘fight’ instinct. If you find feeling like fight­
ing gets you excited about writing, then a calming breath isn’t going to help 
you, you’ll need something to fire you up instead.
If you listen to someone breathing after challenging exercise or when they 
are excited, you might notice they use a deep short inhale of about three, a 
short sharp exhale of one or two, with perhaps a mini-pause before they 
inhale again. If they use their diaphragm and can breathe through their nose, 
they won’t go over into being out of breath, though. This breathing tells your 
brain that there’s something to work against, that it’s time to get ready to 
rumble, that it’s exciting or that there’s some serious exertion going on here. 
Build up some heat and then let that pour out of your fingers.
How to do it:
	1.	 Sit at your desk.
	2.	 Set a timer for two minutes, select an action notification sound at the 
end.
	3.	 Breathe in through your nose, counting 1, 2 (3).
	4.	 Breathe out fast through your nose for 1, 2.
	5.	 Pause with emptied lungs for 1.
	6.	 Adjust so you can sustain the pattern without becoming breathless.
	7.	 Repeat until the timer goes off.
	8.	 Return to your habitual, normal breath.
Remind yourself: ‘This needs doing, and I am just the person to get it done. 
Watch out, world!’
114
Editing
An equal breath for balanced thinking: Maybe this is the day for careful, 
balanced thought. Maybe this work is boring, but you do need to focus. You 
need to be judicious, even-handed, accurate and steady, and you want a 
breath that helps you with that.
This exercise is all about the counting. It’s just complicated enough that 
you can’t multitask. You have to focus on this one thing. The equal breathing 
means your brain should settle into a state that’s not too sleepy and not too 
fired up but just-Goldilocks-right for the task.
How to do it:
	1.	 Sit at your desk.
	2.	 Set a timer for two minutes, select a neutral notification at the end.
	3.	 Breathe in through your nose, counting 1, 2, 3.
	4.	 Pause with filled lungs for 1, 2, 3.
	5.	 Breathe out through your nose for 1, 2, 3.
	6.	 Pause with emptied lungs for 1, 2, 3.
	7.	 Repeat for one minute, then extend each count to 1, 2, 3, 4.
	8.	 Repeat until the timer goes off.
	9.	 Return to your habitual, normal breath.
Remind yourself: ‘I will proceed at a steady pace through this task, ticking 
things off.’
And there you have it. Three kinds of breathing exercises to get you in the 
mood for writing. I hope that they help you, and that you find ways to tweak 
them so they work even better for you!
Options
If the suggested breathing is distracting or uncomfortable, breathe 
however works best for you. Use the two minutes, the counting, 
the notification sound, and the reminder phrases to get you into the 
mindset.
Rewrite any of the affirmations so they address your individual 
mindset and situation.
Editing
115
Notes
For more extensive detail on breathing techniques, see:
Patrick McKeown, The Oxygen Advantage: The Simple, Scientifically Proven 
Breathing Technique that Will Revolutionise Your Health and Fitness. 
Little, Brown, 2015.
James Nestor, Breath: The New Science of a Lost Art. Penguin, 2020.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/02/04/3-breathing-exercises-before-
you-start-writing/
5.3  How to edit: Different strategies
Before you start to edit, it’s helpful to go back to the plans you made for your 
writing: what did you decide was essential to cover in the dialogical, narra­
tive or visual planning techniques you used? What was the logical progres­
sion you expected to take? What was in and out of scope? How important 
were the different sections?
Now as you come to structurally edit your work, you can assess whether 
the plan was accurate. Reflect on the following:
	•	 What didn’t happen? Is that something that you need to fix? Or did the 
process of writing up your draft uncover new pathways that were more 
important or accurate?
	•	 Did the logical sequence from your plan work out in your draft? If not, 
what is the new logical sequence, and does it work better?
	•	 Did the proportions of each section match how important they are? You 
should spend most words on the most important information. Do you 
need to adjust your sections, or have new priorities emerged?
	•	 Is everything in the draft relevant to the argument? If not, do you need to 
cut material or update your argument?
	•	 What is out of order? Does everything line up to prove your contention, 
to prove your original contribution to knowledge?
	•	 What is missing? Is there anything essential in your research that you 
didn’t put into the draft?
116
Editing
The technical aspects of the editing stage are well covered in the many style 
guides and academic writing books. This section first focuses on how we 
can conceptualize and think through editing, and then offers some practical 
insider tips for putting these into practice, so you can write well and do good 
through your writing.
Next Steps
Reviewing the plans you made in Chapter 2 can be helpful here.
See Sections 5.3.3 and 8.3.2 for more lists of useful editing books 
or check out How to Fix Your Academic Writing Trouble, Chapters 6 
and 7, and Your PhD Survival Guide, Chapter 10 for more practical 
editing advice.
5.3.1  Be your own best critic
In literary studies, ‘critique’ and ‘critical thinking’ are the highest forms of 
rigour, and they are positive terms. If I’m talking to someone in everyday 
conversation, and they say, ‘I’ve got some criticisms of you’, I expect them 
to be pretty scathing about lots of things that are wrong with me. When I sit 
down to read literary criticism, however, I expect to hear a lot about what is 
good about the work.
At the same time, ‘is it any good?’ is often the least interesting or impor­
tant part of literary criticism. My research field is cultural studies/cultural 
history, so some of my favourite criticism starts with ‘this isn’t great art, but 
it’s interesting’ or ‘who cares if it’s good or not, lots of people love it, let’s 
look at why’ or ‘this art is good, but it’s also extremely problematic, let’s 
unpack that’. So critical questions can be more about how your work sits 
within wider contexts than just ‘how can this work be better?’
If you are ‘your own worst critic’, you could explore transforming into 
your own ‘best critic’: not by turning your ‘inner critic’ into an ‘inner cheer­
leader’, but by training your inner critic to be good at their job.
So what is a good critic? A good critic can identify where writing is strong 
or weak, where things are coherent and internally logical, and where things 
don’t fully make sense. A good critic not only identifies such issues, but also 
has a strong sense of how to make the writing better. How they identify 
issues in your writing helps you make productive changes.
Editing
117
A good critic evaluates your work compared to your peers and a model of 
‘good writing’. A good critic is widely read in the genre you are working in, 
and has a deep understanding of what your sort of writing typically looks 
like, along with a historically informed understanding of what is ‘traditional’ 
and what is ‘innovative’ in your field. A good critic can therefore evaluate 
where you could learn from others, and where you stand out compared to 
your peers. Such a reader will also see connections between your work 
and the work of others, perhaps seeing influences that are not obvious, or 
places where your writing is in conversation with other wider debates. That 
helps you to read effectively across a range of sources, and to improve your 
citations.
What’s more, a good critic recognizes development across your body of 
work. A good critic is interested not only in what you are doing well, or not 
so well, right now, but they can also see how far you have developed since 
your early days as a writer. They can see what you are doing in the current 
work that is new, exciting or more mature. They may identify some strengths 
in your earlier writing that have been lost, that you might want to recapture. 
They can also see the consistent threads through your whole body of work: 
recurrent themes, approaches, or a sustained writerly voice.
A good critic sees depths others may have missed, and uncovers latent 
meanings. A good critic reads your work looking for deep understanding, but 
also for ambiguities and tensions in your writing. Sometimes, these deeper 
meanings are something you intended, and it’s great that other readers per­
ceive and appreciate them. Sometimes, those further meanings are uninten­
tional, and they muddy the purpose of your writing. Catching those unclear 
meanings early gives you a chance to rewrite your text for greater clarity.
The job of a critic goes beyond merely responding to your writing, how­
ever. Literary criticism produces new works that extend your ideas, apply 
them in new contexts or explain their ongoing relevance. A good critic will 
help you to see where your research can go next, and how it can be devel­
oped into future writing projects, future collaborations, or be applied in 
future contexts.
Finally, a good critic introduces your work to new readers. A good critic 
helps your writing heroes find your work, and find it useful. Other readers 
who discover you are probably scholars you want to be reading in turn, so 
this aspect of a critic’s job will help you find new heroes too.
Just imagine how awesome it would be to have a good inner critic, help­
ing you write well, understanding your writing process, and getting your 
118
Editing
writing into the hands of readers who want to read it. Give your inner critic 
some professional development so they become good at their job!
Notes
The definition of criticism described here is discussed by scholars, including 
T. S. Eliot, The Use of Poetry and the Use of Criticism: Studies in the Relation 
of Criticism to Poetry in England. Faber, 1933; Northrop Frye, Anatomy of 
Criticism. Princeton, 1957; and Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak, In Other Worlds: 
Essays in Cultural Politics. Taylor & Francis, 2012.
On ambiguities, see William Empson, Seven Types of Ambiguity. New 
Directions, 1966.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2019/07/18/be-your-own-best-critic/
Next Steps
Some literary criticism that I have enjoyed includes works by Virginia 
Woolf, Edward Said, Toni Morrison and Walter Benjamin.
Many significant social theorists are also literary critics, so you 
might use your methodology to find relevant criticism.
5.3.2  How to create a logical structure
Western logical structures, which developed from the ancient Greeks and 
were then built on by Church Fathers and Enlightenment philosophers, tend 
to be what we mean when we say we want your argument to ‘progress log­
ically’ (Aristotle, 350 bce; Aquinas, 1485; Kant, 1781). Wellbeing is often 
placed in opposition to rigorous, logical, excellent academic achievement. 
But as Foucault reminds us in the Care of the Self, drawing on Plato, Seneca 
and Marcus Aurelius, Western logics are also based on a rigorous practice 
of the care or ‘cultivation of the self’ (pp. 48–49). Furthermore, as bell hooks 
reminds us, such logics can be ‘liberatory’ or ‘healing’ if used for good 
(2014, p. 61).
Editing
119
Understanding Western logical norms means you can finally crack the 
code of why your supervisor keeps writing ‘I’m not sure this is a logical pro­
gression’ on your manuscript. Of course, there are other forms of logic, both 
forms that are equally ancient and newer forms that challenge this pattern. 
So if you are doing quantum physics, postmodern philosophy, or Indigenous 
story work, it can be helpful to understand what readers are expecting, to 
establish that you are doing something different, and to explain why it’s right 
for your project.
Perhaps the easiest and best-known form of logical progression is the syllo­
gism. If you don’t already know about syllogisms, they are a very simple kind 
of logical structure to work out what claims you are making, what deductions 
you are making from those claims, and where it might be going wrong.
The ancient Greek philosopher and father of the syllogism, Aristotle, uses 
the formula:
All men are mortal.
Socrates is a man.
Therefore, Socrates is mortal.
This is a very neat logical argument. Yay!
The syllogism is a good way to run through a logical checklist. Every time 
we ask if something is logical, we are asking questions like:
	•	 What are you assuming? Is it correct?
	•	 What are the facts? Do you fully understand them?
	•	 What is the order in which things occur?
	•	 Is there causation, correlation or just coincidence?
	•	 What conclusions can we draw from our argument?
As you have probably noticed when trying to construct your arguments for 
your thesis, there are lots of ways you could go wrong with your logical 
progression. The main ways you could go wrong with your logical progres­
sions are:
	•	 You assume things are true when they are not true.
	•	 You assume things are true for everything and they are only true for a 
specific set of those things.
	•	 Or you leave out an assumption that means you have a serious logical gap.
120
Editing
A tool like the syllogism can help you identify what they are, and then fix 
them. It can be easier to understand how this works with some examples.
	1.	 If you assume things are true when they are not true, your logical fallacy 
(mistake) might be something like the version set out in Table 5.1.
	2.	 If you assume things are true for everything and they are only true for a 
specific set of those things, your logical fallacy might be something like 
Table 5.2.
	3.	 If you leave out an assumption (or step), which means you have a seri­
ous logical gap, your logical fallacy might be like Table 5.3.
The bigger and more complex your argument, not only do you need to put 
in more steps, but you also introduce more steps that could be wrong, or not 
quite right, or be missing.
Table 5.2  Logical fallacy: Over-generalization
Claim
Comments
All mammals have tails.
Only some mammals have tails, although all 
have vestiges of tails.
Humans are mammals.
This is a fact.
Therefore, humans have tails.
False. Only some mammals have tails. Humans 
are among the mammals that do not have tails.
Table 5.1  Logical fallacy: Wrong assumptions
Claim
Comments
Aristotle died in 322 bce.
(BCE = before the common era.)
This is a historical fact.
The Classical period in Ancient 
Greece ended in 323 bce.
This is widely accepted to be a valid 
definition of the Classical period.
Therefore the death of Aristotle led 
to the end of the Classical Period.
False. Years BCE go backwards, so Aristotle’s 
death happened after the end of the 
Classical era.
Editing
121
If you have the right tool for logically working through it, you can work 
through it methodically and solve the issues. Try mapping out sections where 
there are problems with the logic using tables like those shown earlier.
Logical progressions like this represent truth claims. Good writing is not 
only orderly, but honest. This is why something as technical as organizing 
your argument also has implications for doing good. We should interrogate 
our logical structures to ensure we are not using them as weapons to destroy 
or put down other people, but rather to use ‘theory as liberatory practice’ to 
empower and enlighten (hooks 2014, p. 59).
Notes
Aristotle, Categories. On Interpretation. Prior Analytics, translated by HP Cooke 
and Hugh Tredennick. Loeb Classical Library 325. Harvard University 
Press, 1938. See especially ‘Prior Analytics’ on συλλογισμὸν (syllogisms), 
I.2, 24b18–20.
Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, translated and edited by Paul Guyer 
and Allen W Wood, Cambridge University Press, 1781/1787/1998. See 
A50/B74, pp. 193 following.
Thomas Aquinas, Opera Omnia: Ut sunt in Indice Thomistico Additis 61 
Scriptis ex Aliis Medii Aevi Auctoribus, edited Roberto Busa. Frommann-
Holzboog, 1980. See particularly the ‘Five Ways of Deduction’, Summa 
Theologiae, Volume 2, Part 1, Question 2, Articles 1–3, pp. 187–188.
Table 5.3  Logical fallacy: Missing a step in the argument
Claim
Comments
Aristotle died in 322 bce.
As before, this is a historical fact.
The Classical period in Ancient 
Greece ended in 323 bce.
Again, this is widely accepted to be a valid 
definition of the Classical period.
—
However, the Classical period ends in 323 bce at 
the death of Alexander the Great. Aristotle was 
Alexander the Great’s tutor. Aristotle fled Athens 
after the new rulers took power. Nonetheless, 
he is believed to have died of natural causes.
Therefore, the death of 
Aristotle was caused by the 
end of the Classical Period.
False. While this fixes the chronology problem 
of the first syllogism, with the extra information 
included, the argument is factually incorrect.
122
Editing
Next Steps
Use your reader personas developed in Section 5.1 to work out what 
kinds of logics your examiners might expect. How do you explain 
your logical progressions to them?
We also explore ways that these logical philosophical traditions 
can be used to support our wellbeing in journaling (see Section 1.37) 
and in rewriting (see Section 7.3.4).
5.3.3  Editing paragraphs to be steps in your argument
A paragraph is a step in an argument. Like a good step in a staircase, it should 
be clearly delineated and take you in smooth and even stages towards your 
goal. Each step should be big enough for your foot to securely stand on it, 
but not so big you need to walk between risers. It should have enough of a 
lift for you to make progress but not be so large that you need to struggle or 
jump to get from stage to stage. The whole staircase should be aligned, and 
well-lit so you can see your way forward.
Not every stair in the whole journey needs to be exactly the same, though. 
You might have stairs that need to go around corners, or use different mate­
rials. With very long or complex staircases, you may not be able to see all 
the way to your destination from the first step, but you should be able to see 
Michel Foucault, History of Sexuality, Care of the Self, Volume 3, Cultivation 
of the Self, translated by Robert Hurley. Penguin, 1984/2020.
Marcus Aurelius, Meditations in Marcus Aurelius, edited and translated by CR 
Haines. Loeb Classical Library 58. Harvard University Press, 1916.
bell hooks, Teaching to Transgress. Taylor & Francis, 2014. We come back to 
this idea in more detail in Section 7.3.4
Jason De Santolo, Jenny Bol Jun Lee-Morgan, Jo-ann Archibald, and Q’um 
Q’um Xiiem, editors, Decolonizing Research: Indigenous Storywork as 
Methodology. Bloomsbury, 2019.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2020/01/16/what-is-a-logical-progression-
and-how-do-i-make-one/
Editing
123
at least the first flight. For structural editing, you must check that each step is 
part of a larger set of stairs, the flight.
Paragraphs are parts of sections. And the sections make up your chapter, 
and the chapters make up your thesis. A section might be delineated by 
numbering or a header, or just by an extra topic sentence added to the first 
paragraph. Sometimes sections are very distinct, for example as you move 
from context to methods, or from reporting your data to analysing it. 
Sometimes, the sections will be very similar in theme, content and structure, 
for example if you are using them to show development over time, or com­
paring results across locations.
So there is a lot of freedom in how you make a section relate to other 
sections. Sometimes, a single flight of stairs will take you from one floor to 
the next, but often, you will need to turn on a half-landing or navigate a 
mezzanine. These ‘flat’ spaces are also essential: they allow you to get more 
height out of a staircase efficiently with a smaller footprint, and allow a 
reader to pause and survey the next flight more comfortably.
The flat spaces also allow for transitions between sizes or types of stairs. 
In my Victorian-era house, the stairs from the front hall up to the half-
landing are wide and gracious. The less-public stairs from the landing to the 
first floor are much narrower and less grand, which gives us more useable 
space in the upstairs rooms. Within each flight, the stairs are consistent and 
within a section the writing should be consistent in purpose, tone and struc­
ture. But you can adjust paragraphs as you move from one section to another.
You should be able to see the whole step before you proceed. In writing 
paragraphs, this means you need a topic sentence: an overview that tells you 
what’s in the paragraph, how it relates to the overall argument, and how it 
makes progress towards your final goal. This will usually be possible to work 
out from the context, but no one likes to have to put their foot on a step they 
can’t quite see clearly. So always include a topic sentence.
A step should have solidity. A step that is not robust, well-supported by 
evidence or theory, or coherent with the rest of the argument, will feel loose 
and unsafe. Anchor your paragraph with information from your methodol­
ogy, theory or data.
A step should make progress towards your goal. How does this step 
advance your argument? If it doesn’t advance your argument, is it necessary? 
Still, progress towards your goal will be incremental, step-by-step. If you 
cram too much into a single paragraph, the reader has to jump too far from 
one step to the next.
124
Editing
A step should be smoothly continuous with the steps before and after. 
Generally your paragraphs should be about the same length. Consistency 
leads to a smoother reading experience. Uneven steps mean you are more 
likely to trip or stumble. If your reader is skimming, rather than plodding, 
through the text, these safety strategies are even more important. A skim 
reader is more likely to stumble or get lost if your paragraphs are mismatched 
or incomplete.
If there is a step missing, that is terrifying for the reader. If your reader 
ever has to make a dizzying jump across a gap in your argument, they may 
decide it’s safer to back out—not something you want an examiner or 
reviewer to consider. Including a linking sentence helps bridge any gaps.
For a continuous body paragraph, though, there is often no need to wrap 
up the paragraph or link forward to the next paragraph. Simply by placing 
another small step immediately after this one, you create a sense of continuity 
and forward motion. If you end-stop your paragraphs too much, you interrupt 
the flow of stepping through the section as a whole. Unless there’s a reason to 
take a pause mid-staircase, just let me keep on moving. There’s a lot of thesis 
left to read before my deadline. However, a section introduction should defi­
nitely link forward, and a conclusion should absolutely finish conclusively.
It should be obvious when you move from steps to landings. Signal clearly 
when we need to turn a corner, or when the steps have finished and we have 
arrived at the next floor. Always signpost when you are changing direction 
or coming to a stop.
Use other safety rails to keep the reader on track and help them regain 
their footing if they need it. PhD thesis staircases are technical, very long 
and only accessed by experts. Imagine your stairs as the practical metal kind 
that snake up a high-rise scaffold or zigzag down the retaining wall of a 
reservoir. Extra safety features will become more important the longer your 
text is. Give your reader more security through consistent terminology, for­
matting and numbering, plus clear and descriptive section headings.
Make each step solid, economical and consistent. There’s no need to 
waste a lot of words fancying up your paragraphs. Keep it lean and based on 
your evidence. If you have extra words in your budget, use them to further 
secure your theoretical foundations, connect your work more firmly to your 
argument, or clarify what is in scope for the project. Solid and well-designed 
paragraphs help your reader feel safe and confident as they work through 
your original, challenging and extensive contribution to knowledge.
Editing
125
Notes
For more technical advice on signposting, see Your PhD Survival Guide, pp. 
155–156.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/08/19/how-to-write-a-paragraph/
Next Steps
Go back to walking through your plan (see Section 2.2). How does it 
feel to walk through your draft?
There are some great resources for editing your paragraphs or 
developing your argument including, see:
Patrick Dunleavy, Authoring a PhD: How to Plan, Draft, Write and Finish a 
Doctoral Thesis or Dissertation. Palgrave Macmillan, 2017.
Pat Thomson and Barbara Kamler. Helping Doctoral Students Write: Ped­
agogies for Supervision. Taylor & Francis, 2014.
Rachael Cayley, Explorations of Style blog: https://explorationsofstyle.com
William T FitzGerald, Joseph Bizup, Joseph M Williams, Wayne C Booth, 
and Gregory G Colomb, The Craft of Research, 4th Edition. University of 
Chicago Press, 2016.
How to Fix your Academic Writing Trouble, Section 3.3, pp. 44–46.
5.3.4  Why your filing system matters for structural editing
Well-structured filing systems help create well-structured drafts. In a 
major writing project like a thesis, multiple chapters need to be brought 
together. In building towards each completed chapter, you will have mul­
tiple documents: fragments of drafts, first drafts, edited drafts, drafts with 
feedback. If you are writing a co-authored article, then the complexity 
increases again.
In my last four books, each co-author contributed different sections, so 
each chapter was a mess of multiple files with multiple authors writing to 
126
Editing
slightly different timelines. We then read each other’s work and gave feed­
back. The original author then edited their own section. We then put all the 
sections together into chapters and started editing the work as a whole. 
Obviously we needed to use a cloud-based collaborative platform to store 
and share all of these files. But more importantly, we needed a consistent 
filing system that made it easy to find the bits and put them together in a 
meaningful order.
Because academic texts tend to have a consistent structure, you can build 
a standard filing system that, with minor tweaks, can be used across any 
thesis- or book-length project. Start with a folder called ‘Submission 
Regulations’. Find all the documents that are required for handing the work 
in: the massive PDF of formatting guidelines for the PhD (yes there will be 
one!), the PhD examinations policy, library repository instructions, the 
copy-editing questionnaire. Save any website or email with relevant infor­
mation in it as a document and add it to your folder. Your future self will 
thank you. Do not skip this step. It’s a top tip.
Next, create a folder for each chapter. Each time you do substantial work 
on your manuscript, you should save the document as a new file. For most 
people, that means a file for each day you work on the document. Save all 
of these versions of the draft in the same folder. You might also add your 
reading, notes and plans to this folder, perhaps in a sub-folder, but keep it all 
in one place.
Make a folder for past drafts. You should keep copies of old files, as you 
sometimes make a change that you want to revert. Also, if something crashes 
and your current draft is corrupted beyond repair, you can pull up the last 
draft and recover your document with very little work lost. But most days 
you don’t need the old drafts, and it’s unhelpful to have them cluttering up 
your main workspace. It’s too easy to waste a day working on the wrong file, 
so put it somewhere you won’t click on it by accident.
Next, decide on a helpful file naming system that helps you sort your files, 
see what’s missing, and see what is there. And that means Numbering Your 
Files. If you publish a book, you typically submit chapters as separate num­
bered files to the publisher, so this is an industry norm. You can use punctu­
ation like ! for front matter, and start your numbering at 0 for the Intro if you 
want to keep 1 for Chapter 1.
You can include lots of information in a file name these days, so do! 
Include who has worked on the file as well, so you can see which files your 
Editing
127
supervisors have read, and where you have actioned their feedback. Use a 
date format that is easily sortable, like year-month-day.
For example:
! Front Matter
0.1 Introduction 20-06-25 KEF
0.2 Introduction 20-05-11 JAL
0.2 Introduction 20-05-11 JAL edits KEF
0.2 Introduction 20-05-30 JAL edited
1.1 Chapter 1 20-03-15 KEF
Reading these file names, you can see that the second section of the 
Introduction has gone through a first draft, an edit, and a new draft. Easily 
sort the list by file name to find the most recent version, and move the older 
versions to the past drafts folder.
These naming conventions also make it easier to project manage a 
co-authored project, to see who has written their sections and who hasn’t, 
or to see which sections haven’t been edited yet. A PhD with publications is 
likely to have multiple articles in various stages of peer review, and so a 
clear file-naming system will help you track progress.
Obviously, it would have been fantastic if you had created a clear filing 
system at the beginning of the project, but most people just dump everything 
in a PhD folder for a while, and then only come to this need for structuring 
the folders as the project starts to get overwhelmingly big and messy. The 
editing stage is when we decide to tidy everything up and put it in order. The 
beauty of digital file storage, as with digital text files, is that it is so easy to 
improve them later.
You can glance over the file list and see if the overall structure makes sense. 
If you need to reorder your chapters, it’s pretty easy to renumber your files, 
but do leave a note about the old numbering in the file name or document, 
so you can find the old drafts (e.g. ‘1 Chapter 1 used to be chapter 7 20-04-
12.docx’) and ensure you catch any continuity issues in your final rewrites.
Once you have stored all of these documents in a clear and structured 
way, it’s time to stitch all these bits together and make it a coherent whole. 
Using a strategic filing system like this is a way to clean and clear your work­
space and your headspace, and to lay out for your future self the writing 
materials you will need, ready for when you need them.
128
Editing
Notes
There is no need for this filing system to be too fine-grained. In fact, as 
Whittaker et al. (2011) found, search functions will help you find any spe­
cific document you are searching for. Folders are more about clearing and 
defining workspaces than establishing retrieval systems. Steve Whittaker, Tara 
Matthews, Julian Cerruti, Hernan Badenes and John Tang, ‘Am I Wasting My 
Time Organizing Email? A Study of Email Refinding’, in Proceedings of the 
SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 3449–3458, 
2011.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2020/07/16/what-matters-isnt-your-writing-
software/
Next Steps
If everything is overwhelming and messy, not just your filing system, 
it might be time to head back to Section 4.3.5 and give your whole 
workspace (digital or physical) a clear-up edit.
If your drafts and fragments are in a range of different formats and 
software packages (as recommended in Section 3.3.2), take some 
time to go through and export them all into files that can be collected 
into these folders.
5.3.5  Putting the whole draft together
It’s time to put the whole thing together. Gather together all the scraps and 
pieces of your chapter, or indeed your whole thesis, and get them into order 
in your draft. As with getting a first draft done, the platform is less important 
here than understanding the principles. You might do this work on screen, 
on paper, with high-level outlines, or working directly in the text.
Editing
129
There are three essentials that will make a critical difference to your edits:
	1.	 clear headings
	2.	 a way to capture the history of the section
	3.	 a way to move between the paragraph details and the full picture.
Make the headings really clear by using a distinct format. Most word-
processing software has official heading styles, and using them helps you 
create a table of contents. This automatically creates an outline to see how 
the sections relate to one another. Double-check that you haven’t left any­
thing major out and see if your logical order is logical.
Using numbering is helpful. For early drafts, you can go wildly granular 
in numbering your headings if you want to. And make the headings super 
descriptive. Of course, in the final ‘polish’ stage, you will reformat your 
headings into the approved style guide format. But for now, we are focused 
on the structural edit. Your working subheadings should help you write and 
edit your thesis. Don’t just say ‘Methods’: describe what is actually in the 
section. Use more than one sentence if you need to. Talk about what goes 
there, the themes, any instructions for your future self. This is also the place 
to make notes for your future self:
1.1.i.a.1 Introduction, REWRITE THIS LAST, 300 words, see the Con­
clusion for the argument (1.7.iii.b.4)
Tracking changes can only do so much, especially if you ever make edits 
on paper print-outs or across multiple users. Tracking all those changes also 
start to make your drafts crash if you have too many of them. So you will 
periodically need to move to a new ‘clean’ document. If you edit with a pen 
on paper, then you can see the scribbles in the current draft, but it can be 
hard to work out what happened two or three drafts ago.
Therefore, include information about major revision histories in your 
drafts. I am a fan of using the header or footer of a document to include the 
file name, draft number, date, page number, the history of who has written 
or edited it. Then it’s on every page, even if you print it out and reorder it. 
Add a comment in the margin or a line under your headings to help you to 
trace your way back. Name your files, chapters and sections with their full 
revision history.
130
Editing
For a recent book, we decided to totally reorder the chapters right before 
the final submission. We’d already put in a lot of cross-references, so we 
needed to go through and fix every single one. All of them were now wrong. 
I would never have managed it if I hadn’t renamed each of the headings ‘6.2 
USED TO BE 7.2 How to be more concise’. These ugly but useful headings 
were a gift, and I was so grateful for them.
In the structural editing stage, you need to jump from the big picture to 
the paragraph, so you can write meaningful topic sentences and other sign­
posting sentences. Ideally, you want to be able to view both your outline 
and your text simultaneously as you work on the document. Check that the 
prose flows in a logical way to match the big-picture map of your outline. 
A side point should not take up twice as much space as the main argument, 
even if it is fascinating. Gauge that the amount of writing in a section is pro­
portional to its importance.
The closer to the end of the writing project you are, the more important 
these features become. I can sometimes get away with being sloppy across 
the first chapter, because I can hold most of it in my head, and I’ve worked 
on the content recently enough to remember what I changed and why. But 
at the end of a project, with tens of thousands of words written over many 
years, a well-documented structure becomes essential.
Writing your headings in this way is generous to your future self. You are 
allowed to forget things, to need to change things, or to accept feedback. 
There is space for mess and exploration and play. You don’t have to get it 
right the first time. In fact, academic writing always involves compromises. 
A section that seems strangely messy or empty or you can’t remember why 
it’s in such a weird order will be baffling to your future self, but if you have 
descriptive headings that explain their complex history and help you see the 
big picture, then you can make more informed decisions about your next 
steps.
Again, you might not have started structuring your drafts this way, and 
that’s not a problem. You can reverse engineer this neatness to achieve order 
and calm, as well as a well-edited PhD thesis.
Editing
131
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2020/07/16/what-matters-isnt-your-writing-
software/
Figure 5.1  My structural edits for Section 5.3.3
132
Editing
Now you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you want 
to take forward and put into practice.
Reflect on the following questions:
	•	 How does moving from the small details to the big picture make 
you feel? Does it help you see the forest for the trees (4.1), or does 
everything feel less coherent? What strategies can you put in place 
to return to coherence?
	•	 How does being critical about your own writing make you feel? Do 
you feel empowered to identify gaps and inconsistencies and fix 
them? Or does it feel negative and critical of your writing ability? 
What strategies can you put in place to feel more competent at 
writing?
	•	 How does thinking about your text from a reader’s perspective 
make you feel? Do you feel excited about sharing your work with 
others, or does it feel like you are estranged or distanced from your 
own work? What strategies can you put in place to feel confident 
and generous?
You might use reflection tools like journaling, talking to a colleague, 
or mindfulness activities (discussed in Chapters 1–3 and Section 4.2).
Reflective practice for editing: 
The opposite of writing
Next Steps
Getting the big picture might also involve a process like ‘reverse 
outlining’ the whole thesis. For more detail, see Your PhD Survival 
Guide, pp. 153–155.
You can also see a screenshot of my computer navigation pane in 
Figure 6.1 (section 6.3.1), which illustrates the outline view that I use 
to keep track of the overall structure of my drafts.
133
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-7
Polishing
Making your thesis 
shine
6
Once you have the right sections and paragraphs, you can start working on 
whether you have the right sentences, the right words, the right formatting 
and punctuation. Getting down to the details a copy editor is responsible for 
requires laser-focus and attention to detail. It’s also a chance to make your 
writing shine.
Copy editing or polishing makes your writing conform to the rules of dic­
tionaries, grammars and style guides. Because there are so many rules, 
machine tools can be built to help with this stage of the writing process, 
including spell checkers, grammar checkers, computer translation and 
reference software. Some universities will allow you to hire an external copy 
editor for your PhD, because this does not contribute to your intellectual 
contribution, only to your presentation.
However, you can’t fully outsource your copy editing to another person. 
The machine tools and copy editors can help flag where your work may be 
unclear or seems to be incorrect, but you are the expert on the extensive 
technical and unusual information in your PhD thesis. Errors can be added 
inadvertently, something that becomes more likely the more original or unu­
sual your content is, especially with technical language, names or foreign 
language words. You will still need to read over the material with a critical 
eye and ensure it still accurately reflects your research and ideas.
Do not merge or reverse the editing and polishing stages. Restructuring or 
reordering your material may impact your topic sentences, word choice, 
tenses and referencing (especially in fields where the first citation is format­
ted differently). Be kind to yourself and your research deadlines by restruc­
turing at the macro-level (whole of thesis or chapter) and the meso-level 
134
Polishing
(paragraphs and sections) first, and only then move on to the micro-level 
(sentences and words).
6.1  A mindfulness practice for polishing: 
Putting your copy editor hat on
Philosopher Edward de Bono suggests that you can put on different thinking 
caps to look at a problem from different angles: de Bono proposes one ‘hat’ 
that focuses on information and facts; another looks for positives; another 
looks for risks and problems; a different hat considers hunches and feel­
ings; and yet another hat considers creativity and new possibilities. Thinking 
about anything using these different approaches in parallel can help us to 
make progress and solve complex challenges.
You will swap ‘hats’ often throughout your PhD. In the reading and think­
ing stage, your brain’s task is to understand facts, ideas and data. In the 
planning stage, you need to be creative and optimistic about the work you 
will write in the future. In the writing stage, you need to be generating new 
words and explaining information for the first time. In the editing stage, you 
need to take a big-picture view and look for big conceptual problems.
The copy editor needs to focus solely on getting the text into its final, pol­
ished state. The research and analysis is already complete. The sections are 
all in the draft in the right order. All the data, ideas and information is cor­
rect. A copy editor does not have anything to say about the structure, scope 
or value of your work.
How might you get into this majorly different headspace? Here is an exer­
cise you might try.
Put on your ‘copy editor’ hat (this might be a real hat or an imaginary 
one!)
Say:
	•	 I am now a copy editor!
	•	 I am rule-bound, conforming to the style guidelines in matters of format­
ting and presentation.
	•	 Every section must have a beginning, middle and end.
	•	 Every paragraph must have a topic sentence.
	•	 Every sentence must make sense, following directly from the sentences 
before, and leading to the sentences coming after.
Polishing
135
	•	 Every word must be grammatically correct and correctly spelled. If the 
meaning is unclear, I will look it up in the dictionary.
This is not very creative work. It’s about looking up details in dictionaries, 
grammars and style guides. It’s about making sure that you lay out your 
captions in exactly the same way throughout the thesis. It’s about replacing 
all those dashes and ellipses with academic punctuation, and removing all 
those notes to yourself.
This might be your favourite part of the process, because it’s possible to 
get it right. It might be your least favourite part of the process, because you 
prefer the open-ended or creative parts of the work. Either way, it’s helpful 
to put on the copy editor hat, and then remember to take it off when you 
need to move to the next stage of the process.
Options
You might find moving spaces helps you move headspaces. If that’s 
the case, you may find Section 7.2 useful.
Notes
Edward de Bono. Six Thinking Hats. Penguin, 2008.
6.2  A physical wellbeing practice for 
polishing: Five ways to stretch
An important part of a polishing draft is making sure your work is consistent 
across the whole document, which can mean long days of sitting in front 
of a computer in a consistent position: upright on a chair, arms reaching 
forward to my keyboard, eyes on the screen, hips and knees and ankles at 
90 degrees to each other. This is an ergonomic, sustainable position that 
I can keep up for significant time boxes.
However, there is no one ideal posture that you should take and maintain 
for the full working day. A lot of posture advice is so focused on where your 
136
Polishing
knees are that it isn’t clear that you should only be in that position for a short 
while. The mandated university ergonomics training I recently had to under­
take suggests you should sit for 20 minutes, stand for eight and move for two 
minutes in each half hour. Therefore, the best posture is actually a series of 
different positions.
In other parts of the writing cycle, I recommend moving to work in dif­
ferent spaces, but for the polishing stage, I find it’s more helpful to incor­
porate regular stretches and then get back to my computer. I like stretches 
that make my limbs move in the opposite way to their typical desk 
position.
A good stretch should feel good. If you start wincing or holding your 
breath, it’s a sign to back off. Try to unclench your jaw and breathe slowly 
through your nose, to expand the release and calm. If any of these poses isn’t 
great for you—any other stretch you enjoy will be just as good, or check out 
the ‘Options’ section for adjustments.
Side bends: When you work at a desk, you typically don’t do much move­
ment side to side. Sitting in your computer chair, you can stretch your arms 
out wide. Turn your head and look at your right hand, and then pull your 
right hand up to the ceiling as you pull your left hand down towards the 
floor. Move your whole head and torso to tip one way. Then turn your head 
to gaze at your left hand, and sweep that up high, reversing the movement.
Repeat these as many times as you like to move your arms, shoulders, 
back, neck and eyes.
Back twists (standing thoracic rotations): Facing forward to a computer 
means you aren’t doing a lot of rotations, so add in some twist stretches. 
Stand up, spread your arms out wide and look towards your right hand. Pull 
your right arm back, following it with your gaze, letting your left arm rotate 
forward. Swing your eyes to your left hand and pull it back behind you, 
letting the other hand pivot forward.
Repeat these as many times as you like to move your arms, shoulders, 
back, neck and eyes in another direction.
Arm stretch backs (standing biceps stretch): If you are reaching forward 
to your keyboard or paper draft, you can reverse your position by reaching 
backwards. Stand up and interlace your fingers behind your back. Keep 
your hands near the base of your spine, and push out to get your arms as 
long and straight as possible. Move your head in any way that feels good for 
you and see if that gives you a good feeling along your neck and shoulders. 
Polishing
137
This might stretch your chest and the front of your shoulders as well as your 
wrists.
Wide-legged squat (Mālāsana, Garland pose): I tend to sit with my legs 
crossed or parallel on a chair. This posture makes them move in the opposite 
direction. Stand with your legs wide apart, and slowly squat down as low as 
you can go. Squats move your ankles, calves and hips.
Lying-forward back bends (Bhujaṅgāsana, Cobra pose): Lie on your front 
on the floor, and then push yourself up by your arms until you come into a 
gentle back bend to reverse the desk position of your ankles, hips, back, 
shoulders and neck.
These stretches don’t stop me from feeling tired at the end of the day, but 
they help me feel less pain and stiffness. Finishing a thesis is a slog, men­
tally and physically. Anything you can do to lighten the load is a massive 
help!
Options
Obtain advice from your health professional before starting any exer­
cise program and, as always, go gently.
Hold each stretch for as long as feels good to you. A good start is 
to try moving around in the stretch for between about 20 seconds 
and a few minutes. Any version of these stretches will be great. I’ve 
included the specific names if you want to find a picture or video 
online too.
You can do the standing stretches on a stool or the floor if that is 
more comfortable. Make the squat a bit easier by giving yourself a 
bolster or block to sit on, or a wall against your back.
Dial up Cobra pose by pushing up strongly through your arms, lift­
ing your hipbones and knees off the ground, and coming into Upward 
Facing Dog (Ūrdhva Mukha Śvānāsana).
The more intense poses I use a lot are any kind of inversion (going 
upside down) and Saddle pose (Supta Vı̄rāsana, Reclining Hero pose). 
These may already be in your practice. Alternatively, Dianne Bondy 
provides accessible shoulder stand and bow variations you could 
explore (2019, pp. 172–173 and p. 211).
138
Polishing
Notes
Dianne Bondy, Yoga for Everyone: 50 Poses for Every Type of Body. Dorling 
Kindersley, 2019.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2020/12/23/the-5-stretches-that-kept-me-
going-during-my-recent-final-book-edit/ and https://researchinsiders.blog/
2022/07/28/whats-the-best-writing-posture/
6.3  How to polish: Different strategies
No part of the writing process is as well-documented as the polishing pro­
cess. Because it is rule-bound, there are extensive rule books. Academic 
language, and the English language, also have rules and norms that can be 
described. You will have learned about spelling, grammar, punctuation and 
so on from the moment you learned to start reading and writing in English, 
so you will probably already have a range of techniques that you have been 
building up through your study and professional life.
In her survey of style guides, Helen Sword (2012) found that there was 
‘virtually unanimous’ agreement in terms of:
	 •	 ‘clarity, coherence, concision’
	 •	 ‘short or mixed-length sentences’
	 •	 ‘plain English’
	 •	 ‘precision’
	 •	 ‘active verbs’
	 •	 ‘telling a story’.
(pp. 26–27)
So feel free to take the advice of any writing guide that you already enjoy on 
those points, whether the guide was originally aimed at school kids, busi­
ness people, creative writers, or researchers.
However, the style guides do contain differences in terms of personal 
pronouns, voice, tone, and creativity, as well as specifics on how to format 
a reference or lay out your manuscript (see Section 6.3.3).
Polishing
139
The polishing strategies in this book are focused on getting under the rules 
to understand the deep processes and structures of academic writing to help 
you polish with confidence and grace.
Notes
Helen Sword, Stylish Academic Writing. Harvard University Press, 2012.
Next Steps
For more practical and detailed advice on writing well in the polish­
ing stage, see the advice on style guides in Section 6.3.2, or How to 
Fix your Academic Writing Trouble, Your PhD Survival Guide (particu­
larly Chapter 10), and Level Up Your Essays (Chapters 6 and 7).
6.3.1  Defamiliarizing techniques so you can see your work again
The first task in polishing your work is to read over every single word. After 
working through the outline, sections, paragraphs and chapters in the edit­
ing stage, you need to get right down into the tiny details in the polishing 
stage. Many people find that just reading over things one more time stops 
working after a while. Your eyes are too tired, and too familiar with the work, 
to catch big or small errors anymore. You have already planned, written and 
edited this draft, and on the screen, we tend to skim over text we are already 
very familiar with.
So the trick is to defamiliarize the text enough to be able to read the draft, 
and slow down enough to see all the details. Here are some options for get­
ting to that place.
There is nothing quite like time to help you forget what you wrote, so you 
can read it as if for the first time. A critical distance break is helpful here (see 
Section 4.3.1). The bigger the project, and the longer you have been work­
ing on it, though, the longer the critical distance break needs to be. You 
probably don’t have three months to get away from your thesis, so you can 
combine breaks with other defamiliarization techniques.
140
Polishing
A good way to see your writing anew is to change the way the writing 
looks. You can print out the draft or change the font, for example. These are 
very simple tricks, but they are extraordinarily effective.
One of the best ways to ‘see’ your words and sentences anew is to ‘hear’ 
them. Use text-to-voice or ‘Read Aloud’ tools to hear your draft. The pace of 
reading text aloud means you have to slow right down. It’s impossible to skim 
or skip forward. Reading words aloud means you will catch missing words, 
repeated small words and wrong words. You will also catch missing commas 
and full stops, and sentences that are so long they don’t make sense anymore.
Most people are more fluent at speaking and listening than they are at 
reading and writing, so you will find listening aloud helps polish your draft, 
whether English is a second language for you, or if you are a native English 
speaker who works out if the grammar is correct by whether it ‘sounds right’.
You can achieve the same outcomes by reading your draft aloud, but it 
can become a strain for your eyes and voice. Computers don’t get tired. You 
can give your tired eyes a break and use your ears instead. What’s more, you 
don’t have to sit at a desk while you listen to your draft. While listening to 
the computer say every word in your massive draft, you could be walking 
around the room, or lying on the floor doing your stretches. The computer 
can be interrupted to edit sentences, and then it’s ready to start back up.
Figure 6.1  Screenshot of MS Word ‘Review’ pane with the ‘Read Aloud’ button
Polishing
141
Defamiliarization also helps you combat boredom. We’ve been on this 
writing cycle for a long time, and this content is old information to you. 
Researchers search out new knowledge, so rehashing old knowledge isn’t 
quite so much fun. But the polishing stage makes such a difference to the 
reader, so defamiliarization helps us have more energy and bandwidth to be 
generous to our future audience.
Notes
Rakefet Ackerman and Murray Goldsmith, ‘Metacognitive Regulation of Text 
Learning: On Screen Versus on Paper’, Journal of Experimental Psychology: 
Applied, 17:1, 18–32. 2011.
Maura Pilotti, Martin Chodorow and Kendell C Thornton, ‘Error Detection 
in Text: Do Feedback and Familiarity Help?’, The Journal of General Psy­
chology, 131:3, 242–267. 2004.
Paul T Rankin, ‘The Importance of Listening Ability’, The English Journal, 
17:8, 623–630. 1928.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders:
https://researchinsiders.blog/2020/02/27/three-secrets-in-msword-that-
will-supercharge-your-productivity/
Next Steps
There are lots of different options for voices, with different genders 
and regional accents. Select a voice that sounds friendly or is easy to 
listen to for you.
Defamiliarization is a way of putting on a different kind of ‘thinking 
hat’ (see Section 6.1), and of putting yourself more in the mindset of 
your reader (see Section 5.1).
Use stretches and other movements to keep you feeling well as you 
improve your writing (see Section 6.2).
6.3.2  Style guides
There are so many books that give advice on how to write well (I person­
ally have co-authored three others before this one!), but the most important 
142
Polishing
book is your discipline’s style guide. Obviously you will use a style guide to 
format your references, but they are useful for far more. Many people have 
never thought much about their style guide or used it for more than check­
ing how to format a reference. But style guides reflect and create academic 
communities, so a deeper exploration of what a style guide is might help 
you as you develop your academic identity.
Style guides are often named after a university press (like Chicago), or 
a  scholarly society (like APA [American Psychological Association] or 
MLA [Modern Languages Association]). Sometimes, there are regional dif­
ferences: you are more likely to use MLA in the United States, but MHRA 
(Modern Humanities Research Association) in the United Kingdom. The 
North American guides tend to be much bigger books and more frequently 
updated: the MLA Style Manual (2021) is in its ninth edition in 37 years and 
has 400 pages, whereas the MHRA Style Guide (2013) is currently only in 
its third edition in 51 years and has just 120 pages.
Some styles have confusing names, for example ‘Vancouver’ style is based 
on Citing Medicine (2nd edition, 2015) from the National Library of Medicine 
in the United States, it refers to a numerical citation style used in medical 
research. Although the Publication Manual of the American Psychological 
Association (APA, 7th edition, 428 pages, 2020) might sound like a regional 
style used mostly in psychology, it is in fact the most common global style 
used across the sciences, as well as psychology and sociology research. 
‘Harvard’ style does not refer to a specific style guide, but rather to a generic 
author-date referencing style (Chernin 1988). Oxford University Press uses a 
style guide called New Hart’s Rules. Some style guides have a workbook or 
student textbook version, the most famous being Turabian, after Kate 
Turabian’s A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and Dissertations 
(7th edition, 2007, 470 pages). This is a student-friendly and much shorter 
version of the full Chicago Manual of Style (17th edition, 2018, 1146 pages).
Style guides are useful for the thousands of detailed questions that you 
need to have answers for in writing your PhD thesis: do I use single or dou­
ble quote marks; when do I use a numeral (1) and when do I use a word 
(one); how do I number and format my subheadings; where do the captions 
for figures go? You do not have to make these decisions on your own, you 
just look them up in your style guide and save your decision-making powers 
for the many choices that have research impacts. If you have used the style 
guide, your supervisor and peer reviewers will also make far fewer correc­
tions on your manuscript.
Polishing
143
But wider questions of ‘is this writing academic?’ or ‘am I allowed to 
write in this way?’ might also be resolved by exploring your style guide. As 
the many pages and the frequent editions demonstrate, style guides cover 
way more than just referencing, and they are keeping up with advances in 
technology and society. In her book, Stylish Academic Writing, Helen Sword 
surveyed 100 articles in each of 10 disciplines, and a further 100 writing 
guides. She notes that science style guides often recommend the use of ‘I’ 
or ‘we’, especially for clarity or to show when a decision has been made. 
The APA Publication Manual has recommended using personal pronouns 
since 1974, she notes, and major science guides like the ACS Style Guide, 
the AMA Manual and the CSE Manual agree (p. 39). So if you have been 
told that personal pronouns ‘aren’t academic’ or ‘aren’t used in science’ or 
‘aren’t objective’, you can look up your style guide and find out if that’s 
true.
Each university, journal and publisher will have further instructions on 
style, possibly called ‘guidelines’, ‘author guides’, ‘information for authors’ 
‘schedule for presentation’ or ‘formatting guide’. These will have details 
about practical questions like what to put in the title, how long to make the 
abstract, and what software to use to submit your work. The author instruc­
tions take precedence over the style guide if they come into conflict at any 
point. These instructions on style tend to get updated more frequently than 
the big style guides, so they can often have the answer to contemporary 
writing questions. For example, in How to Fix your Academic Writing 
Trouble, we used the gender-neutral singular ‘they’, both because we wanted 
to be inclusive, and because it was recommended by our publisher’s guide­
lines (2018, p. 113).
The advice in the publisher’s style guide can go well beyond details, and 
encompass big questions about audience, purpose and what is valued in 
‘good’ writing. For example, Nature, one of the most competitive academic 
journals, has its own ‘Formatting Guide’, which goes well beyond how 
to  format your paper. The guide also includes an extensive section on 
‘Readability’:
Contributions should therefore be written clearly and simply so that 
they are accessible to readers in other disciplines and to readers for 
whom English is not their first language. Thus, technical jargon should 
be avoided as far as possible and clearly explained where its use is 
unavoidable.
144
Polishing
Your PhD thesis will typically be written primarily for a specialist audience 
of two or more expert examiners, demonstrating your understanding of the 
academic field in order to be approved to join that field as a peer. However, 
the ‘style’ of writing you need if you want to publish from your thesis in a 
high-impact journal might be quite different. Therefore, the place you will 
find out about what to change will be in the style guide.
Your style guide can support your writing in an unexpected number of 
ways. It can give you clarity about what to do to achieve academic style. It 
can resolve conflicts with supervisors and peer reviewers who might have 
outdated preferences. And in many cases, the style guides are interested in 
ethical, inclusive writing that does good in the world.
Notes
Publication Manual of the American Psychological Association: The Official 
Guide to APA Style, 7th Edition. American Psychological Association, 
2019.
The Chicago Manual of Style, 17th Edition. University of Chicago Press, 
2017.
Eli Chernin, ‘The “Harvard System”: A Mystery Dispelled’, British Medical 
Journal, 297:6655, 1062–1063. 1988.
‘Formatting Guide’, Nature. https://www.nature.com/nature/for-authors/
formatting-guide
MLA Handbook, 9th Edition. The Modern Language Association of America, 
2021.
Karen Patrias, Citing Medicine: The NLM Style Guide for Authors, Editors, and 
Publishers, edited by Daniel L Wendling (technical editor). Department of 
Health and Human Services, National Institutes of Health, US National 
Library of Medicine, 2007.
Helen Sword, Stylish Academic Writing. Harvard University Press, 2012.
Kate L Turabian, A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and 
Dissertations: Chicago Style for Students and Researchers, 9th edition, 
revised by Wayne C Booth, Gregory G Colomb, Joseph M Williams, 
Joseph Bizup, William T FitzGerald, and the University of Chicago Press 
editorial staff. University of Chicago Press, 2018.
Anne Waddingham, New Hart’s Rules: The Oxford Style Guide, 2nd Edition. 
Oxford University Press, 2014.
Polishing
145
6.3.3  Short or long sentences?
I hear a lot of conflicting advice on how to write sentences, and I bet you 
do too. Should you write short sentences, because they are easier to read? 
Should you write longer sentences because they sound more academic? 
Should you write a careful mix of sentences, because that creates good flow? 
None of the usual advice is bad—you just need to develop good judgement 
about when to apply it.
The research is interesting on shorter sentences versus longer sentences. 
Students rated simpler writing as ‘more intelligent’ in a study by Oppenheimer 
in 2005, whereas a famous study by Armstrong in 1980 found that faculty 
and journal reviewers associated more prestige with writing that was more 
complex. So audience and purpose matters.
Shorter, simpler sentences are best, sometimes. Shorter, simpler sentences 
are easier and quicker to read. It’s less likely that your reader will get con­
fused or bored if your sentences are short and snappy. In a shorter, simpler 
sentence, it’s less likely that you will need to navigate complex decisions 
about whether to use commas or semicolons. It’s easy to make common 
mistakes in long sentences like changing tense halfway through, or not 
keeping all your verbs agreeing with the main noun.
Shorter sentences are best for action items, documentation or methods 
where people have to follow your instructions. A clear, direct sentence is 
likely to lead to a clear, direct action! Short, simple sentences are fantastic 
in emails, blogs and press releases, anything that people expect to skim-read 
in a hurry.
However, shorter sentences have limits. A straightforward sentence 
excludes the option to include extra information to give nuance to the main 
sentence. Short sentences can sound brusque, over-confident, or too gen­
eral. Academic writing is often talking about information that is complex, 
indefinite or super-specific: in other words, it is not simple, short and 
straightforward. Simple, short, straightforward sentences might cut out much 
of the information that you need in order to be correct. Don’t value brevity 
over accuracy, politeness, or formality.
Shorter sentences are less information-dense than longer sentences, so 
they may not work as well when you have a lot of information to convey but 
only a limited number of words. Every sentence needs a subject (a noun that 
the sentence is about), and a main verb (what the subject is doing), and you 
need to repeat this for every new sentence. A lot of short sentences therefore 
146
Polishing
use up valuable words in abstracts and grant applications with very limited 
word counts.
Some people rewrite short, straightforward sentences to be longer and 
more flowery. If the sentence is just fine being short, leave it short. Don’t use 
unnecessary ‘filler’ words just to bump up your word count, you need that 
space for important information elsewhere. However, dense sentences are 
more difficult to read, and your reader can get tired, so don’t overuse them. 
Only use complex sentences where your ideas merit it. Your reader might 
feel resentful if they are forced to read lots of challenging sentences when 
your information isn’t worth it.
So, longer, more complex sentences are best, sometimes. Longer sentences 
allow you to cram a lot of information into a small number of words. Long 
sentences are often needed when explaining complex theories, introducing 
uncertain or incomplete knowledge, or mobilizing criticism of important 
scholars or common knowledge. Longer sentences allow you to include more 
information and more context. You have room to add descriptions, more data, 
or a complementary point of view. For example, you might need to add 
‘hedging’ or ‘caution’ phrases to avoid overstating certainty; include defini­
tions or translations in the text; or supply more context, data or nuance to be 
more exact. Nuance, cautiousness, politeness and detail all require more 
words in the sentence. Inclusive language often requires more words, the 
capaciousness of our inclusion often demands more capacious sentences.
Many of the longest sentences I find in journal articles are very efficient 
with words. List sentences, for example, might be 50-plus words long, but 
allow the writer to cover a lot of ground with fewer words. Or a long sen­
tence in a literature review might summarize a big argument, to show that 
the author is familiar with the ideas and contribution of a body of scholar­
ship, without getting distracted from the main topic.
Other scholars often write in longer sentences. So you may want to write 
like them, to show you belong. If you are in a discipline where you regularly 
quote the work of other researchers, the quotes are likely to be long too.
And medium sentences are best, sometimes. A typical academic sentence 
is 25–35 words, and has a main clause and one to two extra clauses. If you 
go through a journal article, you’ll notice that the majority of sentences look 
about the same. I counted sentences in a range of articles, and found they 
tended to range from 18–30 words.
A mix of sentence lengths is best, sometimes. Gary Provost gave the 
famous advice about varying your sentence length:
Polishing
147
Write with a combination of short, medium, and long sentences. 
Create a sound that pleases the reader’s ear. Don’t just write words. 
Write music.
(1972/1985, 5.4)
Provost was discussing creative writing: ‘This sentence has five words. Here 
are five more words. Five-word sentences are fine. But several together 
become monotonous’ (5.4). In academic writing, we honestly don’t care 
how long your sentences are, in terms of their longness, but we do care if 
they are the right length for the job. In academic writing, we put the function 
of your writing first. Academic writing can be dull, obscure or technical, 
because sometimes the information we are looking for is technical, and only 
interesting to a small group of fellow experts. That is a feature, not a bug!
So you need to be able to write short, medium and long sentences, but 
mostly you need to be able to write the right sentence for the information 
you want to convey. This produces sentences that are considerate of your 
reader and accurately reflect your research.
Notes
J Scott Armstrong, ‘Unintelligible Management Research and Academic 
Prestige’, Interfaces, 10:2, 80–86. 1980.
DM Oppenheimer, ‘Consequences of Erudite Vernacular Utilized Irrespective 
of Necessity: Problems with Using Long Words Needlessly’, Applied 
Cognitive Psychology, 20, 139–156. 2006.
Gary Provost, 100 Ways to Improve your Writing. Penguin, 1972/1985.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2021/07/22/shorter-sentences-longer-sentences/
Next Steps
For basic information about writing sentences, see How to Fix your 
Academic Writing Trouble. Find out more about clear sentences on 
pp. 62–67; ‘parataxis’ and ‘hypotaxis’ (short disconnected and long 
highly-connected sentences) on pp. 97–99; filler words on pp. 101–
104; and ‘hedging’ on pp. 119–122.
148
Polishing
6.3.4  Writing in a second language
Students who don’t speak English as their first language are often very wor­
ried about writing up their PhD thesis. And many supervisors are also worried 
about the writing of their English as a Second or Further Language PhD candi­
dates. But in the literature, we contest the ‘deficit’ model (Smit 2012; Kahu and 
Nelson 2018). It is not true that if English isn’t your first language, you must 
be less likely to succeed. You’re actually doing great. In fact, international stu­
dents pass at the same rate as local students and often complete more swiftly 
(Torka 2020). So the data says you will do absolutely fine. You can also benefit 
from these techniques if academic English is a new way of writing for you.
The most important point is to stop worrying. When we read your work, 
it’s generally really good. To get into a PhD program in an English-speaking 
country, you have to have demonstrated you already have a really high level 
of English. We set this hurdle, because we believe it is the level you need to 
succeed in your degree. You’ve proven you meet the criteria, so you meet the 
criteria. No one is writing perfect academic texts—we’re all compromising 
and doing our best and struggling and being just good enough a lot of the 
time. You aren’t held to a higher standard because English isn’t your first 
language!
Supervisors who don’t have expertise in developing writers often default 
to commenting on things they know how to fix, and blaming the language 
barrier, plus correcting grammar and spelling is easy. Helping people with 
structure, developing new concepts, or understanding theory, are hard. Yet 
unclear, error-prone or bad writing is frequently due to a lack of structure, or 
a sign that you still don’t understand the concepts and data yet. The problem 
is often not one of fluency, but of research progress. This is why early years 
writing is often very weak, because the project still needs another three 
years of work to be properly developed.
Writing a PhD is hard. You need to learn a mass of high-level, complex 
writing skills. Your native English-speaking peers also have to learn these 
new skills—and they will be finding it hard too. You might not be using lan­
guage correctly, or not understand a term fully, because you are still coming 
to understand the complex ideas that a word or term stands for. The problem 
isn’t that you don’t have good enough English for ‘actor network theory’, 
‘relativity’ or ‘translocalism’, but rather that these terms represent contested, 
unclear, difficult or developing fields of knowledge.
Polishing
149
All in all, if you are finding it hard to write a PhD in English, you are doing 
it right—you are learning, engaging with issues, and developing new skills 
to be able to write a book-length, original, scholarly work!
That doesn’t mean there aren’t some strategies that are particularly helpful 
to ESL PhD candidates. I’ll share five techniques that candidates tell me are 
useful to them:
	1.	 What are your most common errors? Typically, much of the trouble is 
caused by a few small errors that happen frequently. Common examples 
are subject-verb agreements or using ‘the’. The issue with your writing 
probably isn’t ‘everything’, it is likely to be the same small things over 
and over again.
	•	 Make a list of the things.
	•	 Look up how to do the things correctly online or in a textbook.
	•	 Do a read-through just for that error. This will involve going over your 
writing more than once, but each read-through will be fast.
	•	 As you practise getting it right, you will build good habits so you will 
slowly write less error-prone text.
	2.	 Improve your academic English in ten minutes a week. Spend ten min­
utes every week reading a well-written book, article or thesis in your 
discipline for style, vocabulary and structure rather than content or 
ideas.
	•	 How do they introduce their argument? What words do they 
use to signpost or make judgements? Are their sentences long or 
short? How do they show when they disagree? What goes in the 
introduction?
	•	 Build up an idea of what is normal. You are expected to write 
using the same words and forms, so borrow their vocabulary and 
phrases.
	3.	 Practise writing regularly. If your PhD doesn’t give a lot of writing oppor­
tunities before your third year, find other ways to keep up your writing 
skills.
	•	 Keep a reflective journal as you research or find a pen pal in your 
field at a conference and write to them each week.
	•	 Join the editorial board of an academic journal, write for your student 
newspaper.
	•	 Keep writing, otherwise, you may notice your skills go backwards.
150
Polishing
	4.	 Write your drafts mostly in English, but if you get stuck on a word, put it 
down in your first language. If you’ve ever listened to bilingual people 
talk, you’ll hear them do this in conversation all the time.
	•	 Students report that writing in their first language and translating it 
into English ended up being much more work.
	•	 Instead, write in a polyglot style for your first draft, you can go through 
and translate all the individual words later.
	•	 Don’t spend too long looking for the best word. A clear, simple word 
is good. A close-enough word is a good enough start. As you develop 
as a writer, or use feedback from your supervisor, you can make other 
word choices later if you need to.
	5.	 And finally, long sentences, fancy words and jargon don’t make you 
‘sound academic’. If scholars use those techniques, we are using them 
because they help us explain our thinking better.
	•	 You will ‘sound academic’ when you describe academic thoughts: a 
strong argument, critical analysis, deep insight, expert judgment.
In conclusion, people writing their thesis in a second language should feel 
confident they can and will succeed.
Notes
We have better data about fee types than about language background, so the 
data can be messy.
Ella R Kahu and Karen Nelson, ‘Student Engagement in the Educational 
Interface: Understanding the Mechanisms of Student Success’, Higher 
Education Research & Development, 37:1, 58–71. 2018.
Renee Smit, ‘Towards a Clearer Understanding of Student Disadvantage in 
Higher Education: Problematising Deficit Thinking’, Higher Education 
Research & Development, 31:3, 369–380. 2012.
Marc Torka, ‘Change and Continuity in Australian Doctoral Education: PhD 
Completion Rates and Times (2005–2018)’, The Australian Universities’ 
Review, 62:2, 69–82. 2020.
Swales and Feak have good vocabulary and phrase examples in Academic 
Writing for Graduate Students (1994/2012).
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders and 
published as ‘Writing a PhD in Your Second Language: Seven Reasons You’re 
Doing Great and Five Ways to do Even Better’ on the LSE Impact Blog, 2017: 
Polishing
151
Now you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you want 
to take forward and put into practice.
When you are making a piece of wood smooth, you use a rough 
surface like sandpaper to gradually remove any unwanted rough 
edges. The same concept applies to polishing your thesis.
Reflect on the following questions:
	1.	 Creating something smooth, with regular gentle movements, can 
feel soothing. Does polishing your writing feel soothing to you?
	2.	 For other people, the roughness of the sandpaper, the grating 
sound it makes, and getting covered in sawdust feels irritating and 
gritty. Does polishing your writing make you feel irritated?
	3.	 This stage also encourages you to pay close attention to uneven 
details and small flaws. Does this attention to the detail of what 
needs to be smoothed away feel soothing or gritty to you?
	4.	 If you answered ‘gritty’ to the preceding questions, what is your 
strategy for self-care after you have finished this irritating task? 
(Look back at what you said in the reflection for Chapter 4, it 
might give you some ideas, or you might want to add some extra 
steps into your closing ritual for these situations!)
You might use reflection tools like journaling, talking to a colleague, 
or mindfulness activities (discussed in Chapters 1–3 and Section 4.2).
https://blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2017/12/21/writing-a-phd-in-
your-second-language-seven-reasons-youre-doing-great-and-five-ways-
to-do-even-better/
Reflective practice for polishing: 
Soothing or gritty?
152
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-8
Rewriting
Addressing feedback 
from yourself and 
others
7
No project as long and complex as a PhD will be written with just one draft. 
You will go over each chapter multiple times, as will your supervisor. You 
will get feedback from reviewers, committees and conferences, and each 
time you will need to revise your work. Even after submission, your thesis 
will often need revisions, and then will require even more rewriting to get it 
ready to be published.
The revisions might send you back to any previous stage of the writing 
cycle. You may need to do more research and analysis, or more reading. You 
may have to write more sections. You may need to make small or large struc­
tural edits. You may need to ensure all the sections are in the same font. This 
moment of needing to begin the cycle again can be challenging for writers, 
and it is at this moment some choose to abandon the writing project alto­
gether. It is a big shift from other forms of writing such as coursework assess­
ment, where you rarely rewrite, or professional writing, where rewriting 
tends to be more collegial.
You must expect to rewrite, and so it helps if you can learn to value it, and 
not feel like that means there is anything wrong with your writing. This chap­
ter gives strategies to thrive in this crucial part of a sustainable writer’s life.
Experienced academic writers know that fewer drafts don’t make for bet­
ter writing. These days, I expect to go through the full writing cycle at least 
twice before handing a manuscript to a beta reader, again before it goes out 
to reviewers and again after comments from my editor. I will review it again 
after the copy editor has worked on it, and then after the layout team has 
done the formatting. And this is assuming it’s a straightforward project! I’ll 
do more drafts if it’s co-authored, or we get a ‘revise and resubmit’ from the 
peer reviewers, or if the material is complicated or sensitive. As an emerging 
Rewriting
153
academic writer, you are likely to need a few extra times around the cycle 
as you find your voice, define your scope and work out how to be a 
researcher. But you will always need to face the rewriting, no matter how 
experienced you get.
7.1  A mindfulness practice for rewriting: 
A gratitude practice for your writing
You will need to write an Acknowledgements section in your thesis, and 
you can have fun working out who you will thank and how you’ll include 
acknowledgements in your thesis. But you might also want to make a less 
formal, less constrained, more honest version.
Here, for example, is my gratitude list. It includes some things that have 
been published in Acknowledgement sections and quite a few that haven’t.
These are things I’m grateful for, now and as a PhD student.
I am grateful for:
	•	 A supervisor who got what I was trying to say, and gave me tools to say it 
more clearly.
	•	 Co-authors who get what I’m trying to say, and give me space to work out 
how to say it well.
	•	 Editors who get what I’m trying to say, and fix my work so it actually 
says it.
	•	 Peer reviewers who don’t get what I’m trying to say, and give me feed­
back so I know what’s not communicating.
	•	 Students who tell me that what I say changes their lives.
	•	 Computers who take the work of spellchecking, footnoting, sharing and 
saving my work, and make it instant and invisible.
	•	 Computer catalogues, which are so much better than the old paper cata­
logues for 99% of searches. I love you all, but maybe WorldCat the most.
	•	 Librarians who put relevant books together on shelves, so when I go to 
pick up one book for my research, I find another dozen nearby.
	•	 Archivists who spent months digitizing material, so when I need it, it’s 
there in seconds.
	•	 Wikipedia editors who summarize a topic and point me to the most rel­
evant information.
	•	 Colleagues who are delighted to grab a coffee or find time for a chat.
154
Rewriting
	•	 Scholarships, prizes and grants that offered me the chance to study, 
travel, buy books and just live.
	•	 Other scholars with generous footnotes that explain a new field to me, 
and publishers who make space for generous footnotes.
	•	 Shut Up and Write buddies over the years who helped me get some writ­
ing done when the writing was hard to get to.
	•	 The members of my reading groups who keep me up to date in the field.
	•	 My beautiful walnut desk, and the view of leaves and sky outside my 
study window.
	•	 The non-human writing companions (particularly the black cats) who 
have only interrupted my work in ways that provoked creativity.
	•	 Coffee and herbal tea and nice water, which help me get into the writing 
zone.
	•	 Heating and cooling and windows that open so I write in comfort more 
often.
	•	 The people who write and perform and record the amazing music that 
gets me in a writing mood every time.
	•	 Everyone who ever posted a video explainer about how to move and 
stretch after I’ve spent too many hours at my desk.
	•	 The people who buy, read or review my books and blog, who inspire me 
to keep going.
	•	 Students who ask searching questions, admit their writing challenges, 
and come up with innovative solutions, who make me a better teacher.
I am grateful for so many other things, but this is a first list. It was so much 
fun writing this list! You should have a go yourself, because every researcher 
deserves to have fun.
A gratitude list doesn’t mean you don’t have aspects of the research degree 
that are difficult or horrible. But human brains are better at noticing prob­
lems because it helps us solve them, and the problems around us are obvi­
ous (Rozin and Royzman 2001). A gratitude list just helps you make the 
good stuff equally obvious.
To be clear, I have also sat down to write a gratitude list in the past and 
found it consisted of something like ‘I have a job, for now’ and ‘I work with 
some great people, who are leaving soon’. That has led to me realizing I 
needed to radically change my life. That is also a useful exercise.
A PhD is a wonderful opportunity to be granted the space and permission 
to take a few years to learn, think and focus on an area you are deeply 
Rewriting
155
interested in. Research degrees are often personalized, exploratory and 
financially supported. You get a supervisor just for your project! You get to 
answer questions you are seriously curious about! Maybe you got a scholar­
ship! Wow!
I hope your research gratitude list is full and overflowing. And if it’s not, 
maybe it’s time to see what you can do to make things better and more 
joyful.
Notes
Paul Rozin and Edward B Royzman, ‘Negativity Bias, Negativity Dominance, 
and Contagion’, Personality and Social Psychology Review, 5:4, 296–320. 
2001.
7.2  A physical wellbeing practice for rewriting: 
Don’t keep sitting in the same old chair
By the time you have got to the rewriting stage, you have been working on 
this draft for a long time. If you have a desk where you typically work, then 
your body and brain will have a well-established habit of associating your 
draft with that furniture (Clear, 2018). You’ll have not only physical habits, 
but also habits of mind and habits of writing. It’s going to be at least the 
sixth time you have gone over this content by now, since you have already 
thought about it, planned it, written it, edited it and polished it. It should all 
be feeling very familiar, maybe even a bit boring.
Rewriting requires a significant shake-up of those habits. If something was 
obvious or easy or unavoidable, then it would already be in the draft. You 
need to rewrite to add or address things that were missing or didn’t work the 
first time around. So it’s time to shake things up.
One useful way to get into another headspace is to change your physical 
space. Go to a different café. Take your writing from the desk to the sofa. 
Work in the library. Sit outside under a tree. Try working standing up, or 
lying on the floor.
Personally, I like to research, think and plan in a library. My favourite is 
the big dome in the State Library of Victoria, with embossed-leather desks 
156
Rewriting
on long carrels radiating out like spokes around the reading room. I like to 
type the first draft at my home desk. I like to edit on paper, with a pencil, 
often at the dining room table or on the sofa. I rewrite with my papers and 
laptop spread out across the big spare-room bed, with lots of pillows and 
cushions to make it soft and comfortable.
Some people like to book themselves in for a writing retreat at this stage, 
either alone in a hotel room or at an organized group event. You might 
switch from typing to voice-to-text here, or vice versa. You might change 
location every couple of hours to keep yourself motivated and moving.
Be as extreme or extravagant as you would like. You have already experi­
mented with multiple different writing strategies through this book, so you 
know what can work for you. Use that knowledge or try out something new 
that you’ve always wanted to do.
Options
Section 3.2 gives you lots of options for places where you could work.
If you can only work in one chair for health reasons, think about 
changing something up about the chair you are working in, like a 
different cushion, or move the chair to another part of the house.
Notes
James Clear, Atomic Habits: An Easy & Proven Way to Build Good Habits & 
Break Bad Ones. Penguin, 2018. See Chapter 6.
7.3  How to rewrite: Different strategies
Rewriting will draw on all the different kinds of strategies you have already 
used in this book. You might need to go back to the literature or the data, 
and rethink. You might need to write new text. You might need to take some 
time away from the draft to get critical distance and perspective. You might 
need to restructure sections. You might have to dive into the details and sort 
out copy edits.
Rewriting
157
It might be that a strategy I recommended earlier in the book wasn’t what 
you needed then, but it might come into its own now that you need to go 
back and try again.
You might also have to rethink how to track your progress. Rewriting can 
massively improve the quality of your writing but end up not looking much 
different in terms of how many words are in your draft, or what sections are 
complete. Think of a way to count the quality of words, not just the number 
(see Sections 2.4.1 and 3.4).
This section therefore deals more specifically with the wellbeing chal­
lenges of rewriting. You have realized or been told that your writing isn’t 
good enough yet, even though you have already done so much really won­
derful and hard work on it. That’s tough and tiring, but it’s also a sign you 
have made progress and are making progress. Keep up the good work!
7.3.1  Understanding feedback
Feedback is complex and multifactorial. It can identify problems with your 
ideas, analysis, reading, scope, writing or structure. So it can be hard for 
you or your reader to identify what is the cause and what is the symptom. 
Issues of grammar may be polishing errors, or foundational comprehension 
errors. Issues of structure might reflect incomplete editing, or the lack of an 
argument. Feedback also includes corrections where you made a mistake, 
suggestions, and the identification of problems that the reader has no idea 
how you might solve. Feedback is presented all at once, so your job is to be 
critical in your response to feedback.
As an emerging researcher-writer, your early months are often full of 
instructive feedback about where you could improve your drafts: maybe 
clarity, conciseness, tone, grammar or structure. You dutifully take note of 
the comments, and work to improve. But as you develop as a writer, you will 
need to learn to distinguish between the different kinds of ‘corrections’. For 
example, some corrections should just go into your chapter verbatim, when 
what you have written is wrong and the comment is right. In this case, you 
should just retype what the supervisor has written. This is the most straight­
forward kind.
Sometimes, the corrections are actually only suggestions. Perhaps your 
supervisor comments that you would improve the structure of the chapter by 
swapping two sections, but when you sit down and try to do it, it makes 
things worse. Then you should obviously decide not to implement the 
158
Rewriting
changes, but instead make a note of why you decided against it. Sometimes, 
the corrections are more about identifying an issue. When the comments are 
strongly disagreeing with something that you haven’t actually claimed, for 
example, rather than worry about the fact that the comments aren’t fair, 
notice that you weren’t sufficiently clear and obvious. Go back and explain 
it better so the next reader won’t make the same mistake.
Supervisors are often very busy, and trying to fit in large chunks of difficult 
reading on top of their day job may mean that their comments are quick, 
semi-legible, and reactive. Often, the feedback is less of a book review, and 
more just annotations and reactions. A lot of feedback annotations are just 
notes to self about what worked or didn’t, or in response to a quick proof­
read. It’s much easier to copy edit than it is to give deep structural formative 
feedback. It’s also much easier to only comment on what wasn’t quite right.
Challenging feedback can cause anxiety, confusion and resentment. You 
might take the feedback personally or be looking for reassurance and not 
get it. Or you might have a very harsh view of your own writing, and the 
feedback only exacerbates it. If any of these negative feelings are occurring, 
it makes it hard to productively turn the comments into the necessary revi­
sions and to write the next draft. So exploring your mindset around feed­
back can be productive and generative.
On a practical level, you can be proactive in seeking and framing feed­
back in ways that are helpful for you. Ask for specific kinds of feedback and 
match the kind of feedback to your supervisor’s strength as an editor. For 
example, ‘Can you give me high-level general feedback as to whether the 
research direction seems sensible?’ or ‘Can you please do a careful final 
read to check I haven’t made any typos?’ It is your supervisor’s job to help 
you produce a text that external examiners will pass, and their feedback 
should be helping you to understand what is expected of submitted work. 
Ask specifically for advice on what you need to pass. Don’t ask for generic 
advice about making your writing ‘better’, try to find out explicitly what you 
need to pass your thesis.
You can respond to feedback with further questions and comments. 
Follow up with specific questions about the feedback when you meet your 
supervisor afterwards. For example, ‘I notice there are a lot of corrections 
here about spelling and punctuation, would you prefer to get drafts only 
when they are highly polished?’ You can also respond to feedback by 
demonstrating that you understand their point, but you disagree and can 
explain why. You can use second opinions, style guides, or evidence that 
Rewriting
159
you tried it and it didn’t work. You should always offer an alternative solu­
tion, though.
Your supervisor is not the only person who can give you feedback. Get a 
writing buddy, mentor, coach, academic skills advisor, copy editor, and/or 
other experts to read your work at different stages. Each reader will provide 
a different kind of feedback, which will help you to see how different read­
ers experience your writing.
Save yourself the obvious annoyances. Include the page numbers. Use 
spell check. Avoid that thing that you know annoys your supervisor. If your 
draft is at a very early, rough stage, perhaps submit just the introduction, or 
a report of the work you have done.
Trust the positive feedback. It’s important not to skip over the praise. If 
your supervisor wrote, ‘This all looks on track’ or ‘Good work’ or gave you 
some ticks, then you are doing great. Many candidates worry when they 
don’t get a lot of feedback on their drafts. In my experience, supervisors trust 
good candidates to get on with it. If your supervisor is happy with your 
work, you are probably doing fine. Ask around to the other candidates work­
ing with your supervisor. If some people are getting lots of very detailed 
feedback and rigorous rewrites, and you are getting ‘this is great, keep it up’, 
then you are likely doing really well. Your supervisor knows that you are 
successfully transitioning to becoming an independent scholar.
More importantly, though, positive feedback often identifies where you 
should learn from yourself. I now try to frame my positive feedback to stu­
dents as ‘this is great, do more of it’. While it’s important to write in a way 
that avoids mistakes, it’s probably more important to write in a way that 
portrays your ideas as convincing, exciting, or original.
Learning what readers enjoy and appreciate is essential to writing suc­
cess. A computer can tell you if you have spelled a word wrong, but only 
another human can tell you that you have made their day or changed their 
mind with your writing. So when you do get praise, cherish it, but also learn 
from it. Write out specific comments about what you do well. Identify com­
mon words or themes. Maybe your academic writing is careful, comprehen­
sive, elegant, or insightful at its best. Note it down and start to do more of it.
Hopefully this will help you next time you get feedback from your super­
visor, to help make your writing better, and help you progress towards 
getting that thesis-thing done! This understanding of feedback, and the 
requirement for critical, creative and positive approaches to the comments 
you might get on your writing, will help power your rewriting.
160
Rewriting
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: https://
researchinsiders.blog/2021/03/18/is-the-thing-you-need-to-learn-from-
feedback-how-to-accept-praise/ and https://researchinsiders.blog/2015/09/13/
what-your-supervisor-means/
Next Steps
There’s a lot more to feedback than this little section can address. 
Inger, Shaun and I wrote an entire book, How to Fix Your Academic 
Writing Trouble, all about understanding the feedback supervisors 
typically give, explaining what they really mean and how to put it 
into practice.
7.3.2  Dealing with failures
A PhD involves a lot of ‘failures’. If none of your experiments fail, your super­
visor never gives constructive criticism, and all your articles are published 
immediately without changes, then I’d worry that your project wasn’t really 
a PhD! If you are working on complex, cutting-edge scholarship, with a 
supportive and engaged supervisor, and publishing in quality peer-reviewed 
journals, then you will definitely experience times when things don’t work, 
and you need to build that into your timelines and get used to it, because 
that’s supposed to be part of the process. It’s normal to have articles rejected, 
even more than once. It’s normal not to always get your proposal to that 
international conference accepted. It’s normal to have to apply for lots of 
jobs before you get hired.
It’s part of the experimental method of creating new knowledge that you 
might not find what you were expecting. As we push the boundaries of what 
is known, our methods, conceptual frameworks, language or models might 
stop working. As we try things out, explore, and problem-solve, we are 
likely to have times when we don’t have answers yet. And when we work 
with people, systems, diseases or animals, it’s likely that they will surprise us 
Rewriting
161
with unexpected results that challenge our established ways of understand­
ing them. That’s what research should be, that’s how you make an original 
contribution to knowledge.
Some situations might look like ‘failures’, but actually be the right deci­
sion for you. If you quit your PhD for a good reason, take a leave of absence 
or go part-time, that might be due to a career or life success. Or perhaps you 
are prioritizing your physical or mental health or community for a time.
But there are also life-altering failures. A rejection of a publication, or 
even a significant delay, might mean you miss out on being shortlisted for a 
role. You might not get funding that enables you to continue your research—
in fact, the stats suggest it’s highly likely you won’t get a major research 
grant. You might not get an academic job—in fact, the stats suggest that it’s 
likely that you won’t get an ongoing academic job, even if you do publish 
and get grants and take those postdoc positions. Rewriting is often when 
people recognize the gap between the writing work that still needs to hap­
pen and the likely benefits for your life and career.
These failures may be systemic and not at all your fault. I graduated with 
my PhD in the middle of the Global Financial Crisis. Everything got can­
celled, and the job market cratered. I pivoted to academic skills, and as a 
humanities scholar, I was able to continue to research as long as I had a 
library card. Slowly I built my own research and writing community, and 
have a parallel ‘alt-ac’ career. My peers took a range of equally messy paths 
to try to stay in research. The more precarious your current position, the more 
a failure is going to impact your ability to keep going. Not everyone can 
afford to work part-time, or move around the world for short-term contracts, 
or have extended periods between contracts. Not every discipline allows 
you to find a way to do the work anyway.
Such failures, though, are not the end of the story. PhD candidates are 
resilient, persistent, creative, practical and great problem-solvers. Use your 
data collection and analysis skills to get a realistic idea about grants, jobs, 
salaries and options for you ahead of time. Resilience needs a buffer, so use 
your candidature time to build in extra capacity. Use your networking and 
communication skills to explore how you can build communities that will 
support and enable your ongoing writing. Use your creativity, curiosity and 
bravery to explore what other options there are beyond the university. Even 
academic-career-ending failures are not the end of your career.
The stats also tell us that two years out from your PhD, you have probably 
found something that is meaningful, challenging and exciting. You are using 
162
Rewriting
your skills and being recognized for it at work. Maybe you are working in a 
field closely related to your PhD, maybe you are using your transferable 
skills, or maybe you have started on another adventure to learn new skills or 
build new projects or explore new ideas.
Whatever you are doing, failing doesn’t make you a failure. The wellbeing 
strategies you have put in place for when the writing is going well are even 
more important when things go wrong.
Notes
The stats: QILT (Quality Indicators for Learning and Teaching): Graduate 
Outcomes Survey - Longitudinal (GOS-L) 2022 https://www.qilt.edu.au/
surveys/graduate-outcomes-survey---longitudinal-(gos-l) (data for Australia)
Peta Freestone wrote about potentially quitting her PhD in Your PhD 
Survival Guide, Chapter 13.
A first version of this section was written for Times Higher Education: 
‘Thinking about quitting your PhD? Maybe that’s the right decision’ 
Times Higher Education 2022 https://www.timeshighereducation.com/
campus/thinking-about-quitting-your-phd-maybe-thats-right-decision
Next Steps
Deploying a growth mindset (see Section 1.3.3) could help you 
explore which failures are chances to learn or develop.
7.3.3  Dealing with perfectionism
Right now, perfectionism might be a huge challenge for you. Perhaps it won’t 
let you finish anything. It prevents you from starting anything. You can’t tell 
the difference between ‘slightly imperfect’ and ‘absolutely shitty’: leading 
you either to beat yourself up over tiny flaws in your excellent writing; or 
to hand in really early and unfinished writing to your supervisor, who then 
hands it back with lots of criticism.
Rewriting
163
Perfectionism means you won’t listen when your supervisor says, ‘This is 
great work, and you write really well’. You won’t listen when they say, ‘You’re 
on track’, or ‘This should be in an article.’ It means you stayed up all night 
going over what they meant when they said, ‘your sentences are too long’, 
or ‘I think you need to add a few more references here’. Maybe you are 
trapped in the perfect sentence vortex of doom.
But there is a way out. And smart, self-motivated people with high stand­
ards, like PhD students, are the best people to take advantage of it.
Many people kind of accept that perfectionism is a flaw, but in an ‘actu­
ally, this is a strength’ way, so you’re not going to change, really, because 
you secretly think that perfectionism helps you to do better. Some part of 
your hindbrain, and possibly large sections of your prefrontal cortex, truly 
believes that perfectionism is what has enabled you to reach the intellectual, 
professional and personal heights that you have.
But perfectionism is standing between you and success. Perfectionism 
isn’t the same as ‘having high standards’, or ‘caring about doing a good job’, 
or ‘getting the work done’, or even ‘being excellent’. It’s a sickness, and it 
ruins academic careers.
I gave up on being perfect a while ago. Being perfect meant 99.9% was 
never good enough and always aiming for 150% was exhausting. I always 
(always!) tried to get things in early, under budget and exceeding targets, 
while being a charming, cheerful, team-playing superstar. I mostly suc­
ceeded too. Except when I was flat on my back with debilitating flu, excru­
ciating back pain, or five-day migraines. I was all on, or I was all off. (Hey, 
no one does totally sick like a perfectionist. If I’m not 150% sick, I’m not 
sick … or something.) Trying to be perfect was an impossible goal, because 
a single flaw, however tiny, is still a flaw. It’s a zero-sum game, all or nothing, 
black or white, yes or no.
So, instead, I decided to be excellent. I know from marking undergradu­
ate essays that a first-class essay is about 80%, and such work is described 
as ‘excellent, scholarly, original’. I loved marking essays that were 80%.
I am delighted to produce excellent, scholarly, original work. So I learned 
to work to 80%. Sometimes, my work is in a fortnight late. When I submit 
my work to peer reviewers or writing buddies, I’ve left some space to inte­
grate their input. Sometimes, I spend the whole budget, sometimes, I ask for 
a little bit more. I still meet my targets. Sometimes I exceed them, but only 
if it’s easy. I’m not perfect, but I’m still successful, in fact, I’m more success­
ful (I haven’t needed a week off for a migraine in years).
164
Rewriting
Many PhD Students have a mix of low-level perfectionism, imposter phe­
nomenon and perceived procrastination (Lonka et al. 2014; Sverdlik 2020). 
You are new and on probation in your research field, you need to play close 
attention to critical details and the timelines are negotiable, so it’s never 
clear how behind you are. So it’s not surprising if you fall back on perfec­
tionism as a strategy to deal with it.
But if you don’t finish your PhD because you are trying to be perfect, you 
are not striving for perfection. You are striving for failure. You chose perfec­
tionism over finishing your PhD? You just chose failure. So a better strategy 
would be to decide to pursue excellence instead of perfection.
You love to be excellent, you love to be exceptional, you love to do bril­
liantly, you love to succeed, you love to be complete. Perfectionism is stop­
ping you.
We often say ‘perfect is the enemy of done’. Voltaire said, ‘perfect is the 
enemy of the good’. I say perfect is the enemy of excellence. Perfect is your 
enemy.
Instead be excellent, be exceptional, do brilliantly, succeed, be 
complete.
You just have to choose success. And you are already brilliant at choosing 
success and pursuing it rigorously, energetically, bravely, persistently. This is 
playing to your strengths. Research students are already some of the smart­
est, most competent, most together adults on the planet. This way, your per­
fectionism problems are pretty much solved, though not totally solved; we 
aren’t doing perfect, we’re doing better. So, say, ‘Fuck perfectionism, I’m 
finishing my thesis’.
Notes
Perfectionism, imposter phenomenon and perceived procrastination have 
been widely studied in this cohort, including:
Kirsti Lonka, Angela Chow, Jenni Keskinen, Kai Hakkarainen, Niclas 
Sandström and Kirsi Pyhältö, ‘How to Measure PhD Students’ Conceptions 
of Academic Writing–and Are They Related to Well-being?’, Journal of 
Writing Research, 5.3, 245–269, 2014.
Anna Sverdlik, Nathan C Hall and Lynn McAlpine, ‘PhD Imposter Syndrome: 
Exploring Antecedents, Consequences, and Implications for Doctoral 
Well-being’, International Journal of Doctoral Studies, 15, 737–758, 2020.
Rewriting
165
Next Steps
Significant imposter syndrome or perfectionism may require a coun­
sellor or mental health professional to address it.
If you are experiencing exclusion or bullying, or are being told 
(explicitly or implicitly) that you don’t belong in research, then 
explore your university’s processes for addressing discrimination and 
harassment.
7.3.4  Writing towards hope: Can writing be healing?
Writing can be hard. We can feel that writing and rewriting is an aca­
demic chore, something that must be done. Or it can feel like a drain, a 
strain, a pain. But writing can also be an act of hope, and an act of care 
of the self.
A major contributor to the concept of ‘self-care’ is Michel Foucault, par­
ticularly in Volume 3 of his History of Sexuality entitled The Care of the Self. 
For Foucault, the ‘care of the self’ means the ‘cultivation of the self’, the 
attention to developing and governing your own capacity, whether as a 
The French Enlightenment philosopher Voltaire quoted an Italian prov­
erb to claim that ‘perfect is the enemy of the good in the Dictionnaire 
Philosophique: Ou la Raison par Alphabet. 1770. ‘Perfect is the enemy of 
done’ first appears in publication attributed in conversation to entrepre­
neur Harris Turner, in Craig Hall, The Responsible Entrepreneur: How to 
Make Money and Make a Difference. Career Press, 2001. I don’t think I’m 
the first person to say, ‘Perfect is the enemy of excellence’, but this seems 
to be the first appearance in a book.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2013/05/01/perfectionism-is-the-least-of-
your-problems/
Some of the material was developed in conversation on:
Kevin Sonney, Host, ‘Lucky Little Man’, Episode 208. Dr. Katherine Firth, 
Productivity Alchemy podcast, 2021, https://productivityalchemy.com/
2021/07/15/episode-208-lucky-little-man-dr-katherine-firth/
166
Rewriting
precursor to stepping out into your community, or in an individualistic soci­
ety where such care can only come from the self. The cultivation of the self 
is the purpose of adult education.
This care activity is not soft, or easy. In Alcibiades 1, one of the ancient 
Greek sources Foucault uses to make his argument, Socrates uses a number 
of terms to discuss the ‘care of the self’, including to manage or take care of 
yourself, to make an effort to develop yourself, which Foucault translates as 
‘cultivation of the self’ (ἐπιμεληθεὶς σαυτοῦ, Alcibiades 1 120d, 127d, 128d). 
Thus, the ‘care of the self’ is the ‘epimeleia heautou, the ‘cura sui’, the mak­
ing better of the self and your community, for the purposes of living well and 
being well (Care, p. 45).
The care or cultivation of body, mind and spirit is integrated, and it is all 
necessary. In the practice of reflection and action, writing is an integral part. 
As Foucault puts it:
Taking care of oneself is not a rest cure. … Around the care of the 
self, there developed an entire activity of speaking and writing in 
which the work of oneself on oneself and communication with others 
were linked together. … Here we touch on one of the most important 
aspects of this activity devoted to oneself: it constituted, not an exer­
cise in solitude, but a true social practice.
(Care, p. 51)
In contrast, self-care as recommended to us by popular culture is fre­
quently about luxury—about buying luxury items and engaging lux­
ury services. And the definition of luxury is something to excess, that 
is beyond the requirements, it is delightful because it is unneeded. But 
Audre Lorde, the thinker most foundational for our modern concepts of 
self-care, writes, ‘If what we need to dream … is discounted as a luxury’ 
then ‘we give up the future of our worlds’ (‘Poetry Is Not a Luxury’, p. 
28). To consider writing as a luxury is to discount it. The excess cheapens 
it, makes it worth less, makes it mean less. Instead, we need writing like 
poetry for our self-care because it is ‘a vital necessity of our existence’ 
alongside ‘action in the now’ to enable survival, pleasure, healing and 
strength (pp. 26–27).
Similarly, self-care, Lorde writes, is ‘necessary’:
Rewriting
167
Caring for myself is not self-indulgence, it is self-preservation, and 
that is an act of political warfare.
(Burst of Light, p. 130)
Self-care is looking after yourself when you have cancer. It’s warfare. It’s 
management, command, medical healing, cultivation. It’s education, exper­
tise and reflexive practice. Lorde writes of things that are necessary for her 
to thrive as ‘my givens’, not negotiable or excessive or something we can 
discount.
Lorde sees her writing as essential: her lectures, her poetry, her essays and 
her memoir. She also includes her reflective and developmental practice 
(‘I see and learn’, ‘ἰδὲ σαυτόν’), and her physical care for herself as a woman 
experiencing physical and political pain (‘I rest’, ‘cura sui’), and her situation 
in relation to community and pleasure (‘I love’). Love is not the opposite of 
writing, we write for our communities, we write for readers. bell hooks sim­
ilarly described writing as freeing and healing, of writing as ‘release’, and of 
the process of writing as a ‘place of reconciliation and reclamation’ 
(Remembered Rapture, p. 6).
But what about academic writing? Isn’t that a different thing? Absolutely 
not. Particularly if you are doing a PhD, you are literally writing yourself into 
existence as a scholar. The thesis proves you are an expert, it shows your 
awareness of your position within the field, it demonstrates that you have 
grown and developed as a researcher to the level required. Kamler and 
Thomson have long argued that ‘doctoral writing’ is ‘text work and identity 
work’ (2007, p. 166).
What we should also recognize is that writing and rewriting are not the 
opposite of self-care. In our drafts, reports, reflective journaling, edits and 
revisions, we are making an effort to develop ourselves (ἐπιμεληθεὶς σαυτοῦ). 
We develop expertise and leadership potential, becoming educated, wise, 
knowledgeable, intelligent, competent at managing projects and teams. This 
is what we show in a thesis.
For a doctoral scholar, writing is not a luxury, writing is a necessity. 
Writing is how we get things done in the world, how we make new knowl­
edge, but also how we make space for our new knowledge and share it with 
our community of scholars. Our discipline can constrain us or care for us. 
We can develop practices for writing as exhaustion, or as exertion towards 
our own cultivation. Our writing can be how we experience and re-create 
168
Rewriting
the unequal functioning of power, or it can be how we ‘taste new possibili­
ties and strengths’ (‘Poetry Is Not a Luxury’, p. 28).
And this is why Lorde argues that ‘Poetry Is Not a Luxury’:
As we learn to bear the intimacy of scrutiny and to flourish within it, 
as we learn to use the products of that scrutiny for power within our 
living, those fears which rule our lives and form our silences begin to 
lose their control over us.
(p. 25)
When it is time to face a rewrite, it is a moment to ask if we can use gen­
erative or regenerative writing techniques. If our careful revisions can be 
revisions full of care for ourselves and our community. If in our generous 
reading of our own texts and our supervisors’ feedback, we can offer gener­
osity to ourselves and our future readers. Writing is not a luxury. Writing is 
not the opposite of self-care. We can write towards hope.
Notes
Michel Foucault, History of Sexuality, Care of the Self, Volume 3, Cultivation 
of the Self, translated by Robert Hurley. Penguin, 1984/2020.
bell hooks, Remembered Rapture: The Writer at Work. Henry Holt, 1999.
Barbara Kamler and Pat Thomson, ‘Rethinking Doctoral Writing as Text Work 
and Identity Work’, in Bridget Somekh and Thomas A Schwandt, editors, 
Knowledge Production: Research Work in Interesting Times, pp. 166–179. 
Routledge, 2007.
Audre Lorde, ‘Poetry is not a Luxury’, in Sister Outsider, pp. 25–42. Penguin 
1984/2019.
Audre Lorde, A Burst of Light: And Other Essays. Ixia Press, 1988/2017.
Plato (attributed), Alcibiades 1, c.390BCE/1927.
Next Steps
This section revisits thinkers we have previously thought alongside 
with reference to generous reading strategies (see Section 1.3.5), jour­
naling (see Section 1.3.7) and logical structures (see Section 5.3.2).
Rewriting
169
Now you have read this chapter, it’s time to reflect on what you want 
to take forward and put into practice.
Reflect on the following questions:
	•	 Does rewriting feel like an opportunity to you?
	•	 Are you motivated by succeeding? Does critical feedback feel like 
it helps you move towards success?
	•	 Are you motivated by working for yourself, or for other people? 
Who is motivating you right now?
	•	 How will rewriting get you closer to your overall goal of complet­
ing a thesis, graduating and changing the world?
You might use reflection tools like journaling, talking to a colleague, 
or mindfulness activities (discussed in Chapters 1–3 and Section 4.2).
Reflective practice for rewriting: 
What motivates you?
170
DOI: 10.4324/9781003307945-9
Conclusion
Writing well is not 
the opposite of being 
well
8
The greatest freedom to build a writing life that suits you often happens at 
exactly the same time that you feel most uncertain or precarious: starting a 
new research degree, moving to a new research job, or in the gaps between 
positions. This book doesn’t solve the issues of precarity, but it can help you 
to imagine and put into practice the kind of transition you would like to 
work towards. I hope this book has encouraged you to reflect on the pro­
ductivity hacks and strategies that work for you, and to think about creative 
ways to put them into practice in your writing life.
This journey of writing well and being well for your PhD and the rest of 
your writing life is one I have had to learn and am still on. I graduated into 
a global recession and faced challenges along the way, including moving 
across the world to a city with few contacts, struggling with ongoing health 
issues, being bullied at work and facing multiple rejections in my writing life 
(including an earlier version of this book!). I asked other people what they 
actually did when they wrote, found what gave me joy, was not afraid to 
experiment, and managed to keep on writing. Slowly, I have learned the 
strategies that have worked for me to stay as well as possible while writing. 
Be assured, I did take my own advice, and used the processes and strategies 
recommended in this book to write it. I benefitted from regularly being 
reminded to stretch, to connect with my community, to imagine my ideal 
reader, to be generous in my reading and rewriting.
As Audre Lorde reminded us, self-care is ‘necessary’ (1986/2020 p. 130) 
For Lorde, even while battling cancer as a marginalized black lesbian 
woman in America, writing is not the opposite of self-care, writing is part of 
her care of the self, part of how she pursued wellbeing in her own body 
mind and spirit, and how she contributed to the wellbeing of people all over 
Conclusion
171
the world. It is this kind of wellbeing, this kind of writing well, that I hope 
this book has offered you.
Next Steps
For more about my journey see Sections I.2.1 and 7.3.2.
For more on Audre Lorde and necessity, see Section 7.3.4.
8.1  A mindfulness practice for writing: A loving 
kindness meditation for your writing
Mindfulness is about being present in the moment with your writing, but 
there may be difficult feelings there. Maybe your writing has been criticized. 
Maybe you are aware of a lot of things that need fixing in your draft. Maybe 
you are writing about material that is difficult or sad. Maybe you are tired or 
bored. Maybe you are in conflict with a co-author or your supervisor over 
your writing. That’s all pretty common! Sometimes reflecting on a situation 
just highlights how hard everything is and how tired everyone feels.
It can help to move from rehearsing how badly you feel, to articulating a 
beneficial wish for everything and everyone around you, including yourself. 
Mindfulness doesn’t necessarily fix anything—the point of mindfulness is 
mindfulness. So you may find this helps you get into a better headspace for 
writing or collaborating. But you might not, and that’s fine. And wishing 
others well may lead to warm reciprocation, or not, and that’s also fine. This 
is not a tool like a spell check, this is an emotion and a hope and an aspira­
tion. Researchers are allowed to have those too.
If you’d like to have a go, you might want to start with a traditional global 
meditation like a mettā bhāvanā (cultivation of good will) or apply it more 
specifically to your writing practice. It might look something like the follow­
ing words:
Let me be happy and safe now, as I continue to write, may there be 
joy in my writing.
Honour to my brain and its way of journeying. May its setting out 
be blessed with a spirit of safe exploration. Generosity to its methods 
172
Conclusion
of creativity, problem-solving and way-finding. May I honour its jour­
ney as much as its destination. You are doing great, brain!
May there be joy and love sent to this computer, which works so 
hard alongside me. Blessed be its memory, its connections, its pro­
cessing power, its waking from sleep mode and its recharging. You 
are doing great, computer!
May there be calm and strength sent to this printer, in its printing, 
scanning and copying modes, may there be smoothness and clarity 
in its paper loading and ink application, fidelity in its images. You are 
doing great, printer!
May there be joy and insight for my co-authors, editors and 
reviewers. May there be delight in connection and communication. 
Let there be honesty and generosity in our dealings. You are doing 
great, writing companions!
Grace and kindness to this chair, this desk, this lamp. May we sup­
port one another, holding each other: solid, soft, bright, level. You are 
doing great, writing furniture!
Love and peace to those around me as I write: to my family, 
co-workers, or strangers. May your own lives and days be ones of 
health, happiness and peace. May I bring peace to you, companions 
who are not writing!
Hello neck, hello back, hello wrists, hello knees, hello eyes, hello 
jaw, hello temples and forehead. Hello gut and brain and heart. 
I meet you and send you loving kindness.
Hello notes. Hello plan. Hello analysis and evidence. Hello draft. 
Grace and mercy to you, kindness to you. May you be happy-minded.
Maybe this sounds like the opposite of your normal thought patterns. Do you 
think unkind thoughts towards your equipment, writing, and those around 
you? Do you send them exasperation, frustration or ill will? You wouldn’t be 
alone! There are whole humour genres based on academic snark.
A loving-kindness meditation doesn’t mean you should gloss over an 
injustice, ignore when you are tired or avoid conflicts. But what would it 
mean if you started from a place of acceptance and kindness for your depart­
ment printer and your laptop, instead of exasperation or indifference?
Offering kindness to machines, students and employees, helps me turn 
the dial towards being the kind of human I want to be in the world. Offering 
kindness to myself and my writing helps me work through my drafts with 
softness. However harsh the world is to us, we don’t need to double it by 
Conclusion
173
being harsh on ourselves too. In fact, the less care others offer you, the more 
important it is to give yourself softness and healing and care.
You may never be the team member who can be found telling the photo­
copier how much you believe in it (though I am!), but maybe you could dial 
back on the negative talk, to yourself and others. How does that feel? What 
grace could be experienced?
Notes
For more traditional mettā or maitr̄i from different traditions see, for example:
Yoga Sutras of Patañjali (Part 1, Samādi Pāda, Verse 33).
Chandogya Upanishad (Part 8, Chapter 15, Verse 1).
Tattvartha Sutra (Chapter 7, Sutra 11).
Sutta-nipata (Part 1, Uragagga, Section 8, Mettasutta).
This reflection was also loosely inspired by the Actor Network Theory. 
See, for example, Bruno Latour, Aramis, or the Love of Technology. Harvard 
University Press, 1993/1996, pp. 225–227 and pp. 778–788.
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders: 
https://researchinsiders.blog/2021/09/09/a-loving-kindness-meditation-for-
your-writing/
8.2  A physical wellbeing practice for 
writing: Celebration dance party
You read this whole book! It’s time to have a celebration dance party!
If you want to get pets, kids, office mates or your writing group involved, 
send out invites and pump up the volume! If this is a party for one, put in 
your earbuds or close the office door.
Queue up some of your favourite dance music and set the clock for five 
minutes. It doesn’t matter if it’s hardcore punk, a classical minuet, a cheesy bop 
or a dark tango. It just matters that you feel like dancing when you listen to it.
Maybe it’s time for those fairy lights or that disco ball. Maybe try it 
no-lights-no-lycra style and turn the lights off so no one can see you.
Turn on the music and dance!
Tapping your feet and nodding your head counts as dancing, as does twirl­
ing, leaping, headbanging or quickstepping. Clap your hands, get out a tam­
bourine, sing along. Get yourself physically involved in the music somehow.
174
Conclusion
If you are having a great time, feel free to do more than five minutes.
And I am dancing along with you! I am so excited and proud and awe­
struck at what an amazing and important writing job you have done!
8.3  Moving forward with writing 
into your future
All my writing books have a version of the writing cycle in them, but this 
book really focuses on the whole cycle. Writing is not just getting words on 
a page or spelling them right. Writing is a complex, multi-stage, iterative 
process, and each stage has different requirements and challenges.
You may already have strategies that help you manage those requirements 
and challenges. You might be starting in a different place from me: with a 
different body, family life, brain chemistry, research field, academic back­
ground or personality style. That’s cool! There is no need for you to follow 
my practices as the ‘right’ way to do things. Rather, in this book I reveal how 
I, and others, honestly work so that you can have permission and encour­
agement (and maybe a few pointers to explore) to set up a writing practice 
that you can live with and work with.
This book was proposed as I was finishing a long academic publication 
for which I needed to do hard, theoretical, painful thinking and research. 
The topics weren’t things you can address lightly, and getting it wrong had 
the potential to do enormous hurt and damage to others. I really struggled 
with this content, but I believed it mattered that I did the work. The strategies 
in this book are about making the process bit of the writing easier so you 
have brain space and emotional space to deal with the distressing or per­
plexing challenges of your research.
This book is also about getting better at understanding what kind of hard 
your writing might be at each stage, so you can plan for it. Hopefully, this 
book has helped you identify and develop strategies to keep writing into 
your future: both the next few years of PhD writing, and a long career where 
writing is an active and fulfilling part of your life.
8.3.1  Writing a thesis is hard work, but it needn’t be damaging work
Taking the time to be well—to eat food, drink water, have a social life, exer­
cise, lie on the grass and daydream, look up from the screen, breathe deeply, 
Conclusion
175
live mindfully, get enough sleep—is not a distraction from your thesis, it 
forms the bedrock of your writing life. A sustainable, life-giving, self-caring 
writing life is one that you can keep going beyond your PhD.
As an academic and an author, I need to keep on writing. I need to draft, 
edit, redraft, rewrite. Getting a book published takes so many stages of edits. 
The more experienced I get, the easier some things become. But I also find 
ways to challenge myself, to tackle harder projects. So the writing stays hard.
On my blog, I often talk about writing in relation to making bread, or lifting 
weights. Not only because they offer useful metaphors for writing, but because 
they actually are how my writing gets done. My strong hands and wrists from 
kneading dough and lifting dumbbells allow me to type. The pauses as I step 
away from the desk help me think, or get critical distance. The calories I con­
sume when I eat the bread, turn into the electricity that powers my brain cells 
and keep me awake. We are interconnected to our whole bodies.
And we are connected to one another. I believe books that set out puni­
tive, disciplinarian forms of writing advice make writers feel alone and 
ashamed, and contribute to writer’s block and imposter syndrome. Writing 
books that celebrate all of us, in our all our bodies, with all our brains, help 
us come together and share. When we have a writing community based on 
acceptance, generosity and authenticity, then the writing we produce will be 
ethical, productive, readable and useful—in other words, ‘good writing’.
I do not believe that acceptance is the opposite of good writing. Your 
writing must be original, scholarly and accurate to pass a PhD. Your writing 
might not yet be great, but together we can make it great. Accepting that you 
will need feedback, and you will need to rewrite is part of making your writ­
ing great.
And as you bring your whole self to the writing desk, you will also start to 
find your voice as a writer, your flow. You will not just be a competent stu­
dent of writing, you will write like an expert, like a peer, like an author, like 
a scholar.
Notes
A first version of this section was written for Research Degree Insiders 
and republished at: https://www.timeshighereducation.com/blog/should-phd-
be-hard
176
Conclusion
8.3.2  Writing well is something we do together
You need a community around you to write well. That community may 
include your friends, family, housemates, pets, writing groups, writing bud­
dies, and co-authors.
This community might include your supervisors, writing specialists, edi­
tors or reviewers. It might include online advice from blogs, podcasts or 
books. I add some more classics at the end of this section.
Scholarships, annual leave and sick leave, healthcare, wellbeing services, 
and student services make a major difference to being well and completion 
rates. To write well, it helps if your institution and the whole of society sup­
ports you too. As we make time and space for our health and mental health, 
we might also want to include professionals in those areas.
PhDs are not only about doing research and writing it down. They are 
about making a contribution to knowledge, to making people’s lives better, 
either through greater understanding or practical changes to lives and envi­
ronments. Writing well is therefore also part of doing good. The world can’t 
wait to read the words you write. Let’s sit together and get some writing done.
Next Steps
General classic writing resources I’d recommend:
Umberto Eco, How to Write a Thesis. MIT Press, 2015.
Elizabeth Gilbert, Big Magic: Creative Living Beyond Fear. Bloomsbury, 2015.
Marian Petre and Gordon Rugg. The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research. Open 
University Press, 2004/2020.
Barbara E Lovitts, Making the Implicit Explicit: Creating Performance Expec­
tations for the Dissertation. Stylus, 2007.
Rowena Murray, How to Write a Thesis. Open University Press, 2002/2017.
Estelle Phillips and Colin Johnson, How to Get a PhD: A Handbook for 
Students and Their Supervisors. McGraw-Hill Education, 1987/2022.
Edward W Said, On Late Style. Bloomsbury, 2006.
John M Swales and Christine B Feak. Academic Writing for Graduate Students: 
Essential Tasks and Skills. University of Michigan Press, 1994/2012.
Conclusion
177
Now you are at the end of the book, it’s time to reflect on what you 
want to take forward and put into practice.
You might use any of the strategies discussed in the book, or others 
that you enjoy, as reflection tools.
Reflect on the following questions:
	•	 What will you take forward from this book for the next stages of 
your PhD?
	•	 What other mindsets, techniques, skills, resources, mentors and 
advice will you add to your toolkit?
And a second step, if you return to this book as you are ready to move 
into the next phases of your writing life:
	•	 What served its purpose for the PhD, but will not be carried into the 
future?
	•	 What helped you during your PhD, and what do you think will help 
you for the next stages too?
However you write, whatever you take forward, whatever you leave 
behind, a final mettā:
May you always write with truth and grace, may you write with 
health and happiness, may you write with strength and purpose, 
may your writing be supported by communities of co-writers 
and readers, may your writing help to change the world for the 
better.
Reflection practice: Beyond the book
178
apps 59, 62, 83
Arcades Project, The (Benjamin) 24
argument 65, 67
Aristotle 118–121
Artist’s Way, The (Cameron) 76
balance 14, 61, 112, 114
Benjamin, Walter 24
bibliographies 35
big picture 63, 74, 89–90, 93–94, 109, 
130–132
blogging 40, 106, 113
bodies 155, 163, 166, 175
Boice, Robert 76, 77, 80
Bondy, Dianne 137
boundaries 95–97
breaks 9, 12, 53, 102–107; see also 
critical distance breaks
breathing 48–49, 90, 112–115
bullying 165
burnout 11
calendars 59–60
calm 22–23, 97, 112–113
Cameron, Julia 76
Care of the Self (Foucault) 118
Carson, Anne 24
celebration 59, 61, 74, 85, 173–174
chair 155–156
challenges 57, 134, 154, 162, 174
Cisco, Jonathan 31
citations 142
cleaning 90–91, 101–103
co-authorship 5, 11, 67, 81, 85, 
125–127, 154
comfort 78–79, 154
community/colleagues 12, 59, 67, 132, 
154, 176
confidence 31–35
cooking 92, 174
copy editing 8–9, 133–135
Cornell Method of note-taking 37–38, 46
corrections 157–158
critical distance breaks 88, 92–95, 100, 
106, 139
critical thinking 116–118, 132
Davis, KC 101
de Bono, Edward 134
desk 78, 154, 155–156
diaries 42, 61
diffuse mode thinking 27–28, 29, 51–52
disability 18, 64
discrimination 165
done lists 59–61
drafts: editing 8; filing 125–128; first 
draft 17, 66, 67–68, 70, 80–84; 
planning 50; putting it all together 
128–131; revising 27; taking notes 
37
Index
Index
179
editing: breathing exercises for 
112–115; developing your 
argument 50, 122–124; first draft 
82; headings 129–130; identifying 
issues 116–118, 132; line editing 
8; logical progression 118–122; as 
part of writing cycle 8; reflecting 
on the editing process 132; revision 
histories 129–130; revisiting your 
writing plan 115–116; structural 
editing 94, 109, 123, 125–131; 
using a fictional reader persona 
110–111
Elbow, Peter 77
email 53, 104, 128
exercise see movement
failure 160–162, 164
feedback 9, 81, 82, 154, 157–160
filing systems 103, 125–128
focus 22–23, 26–28, 48
food and drink 77, 105, 154
Foucault, Michel 43–44, 118, 
165–166
friends and family 3, 49, 56, 176
Frith C & Frith U 110
full-time study 53, 57
Gardiner, Maria 33
generative writing 70, 76–77, 80, 107, 
168
generosity 38–40, 107
getting started 31
goals 48–49, 61–65, 105
graduation 17, 48, 169
gratitude 153–155
Gros, Frederic 24
harassment 165
headings 129–130
healing 165–168, 173
health 3, 56, 64, 163, 176
History of Sexuality: Care of the Self 
(Foucault) 44, 118, 165–166
hobbies 3, 61, 99–101
holidays 93–94, 103, 106
holistic approach to writing 2–3, 13–14
hooks, bell 84, 118, 167
hope 165–168
How to Fix your Academic Writing 
Trouble (Mewburn, Firth & 
Lehmann) 71, 116, 139, 143, 147, 
160
imagination 95, 110–111
imposter phenomenon 31, 164, 165, 
175
inclusive writing 67, 143, 144, 146
JOMA (Just One More Article) 
Syndrome 33
journaling 43–45, 108, 132
Kamler, Barbara 167
Kanban system 72
Kearns, Hugh 33
Kiley, Margaret 33
‘Kinds of Water’ (poem) 24
King, Steven 28
Lamott, Anne 80
languages other than English 140, 143, 
148–151
Level Up Your Essays: How to Get Better 
Grades at University (Mewburn, 
Firth & Lehmann) 37, 73
line editing 8
lists 59, 61, 62, 65
literature review 29–30, 36, 146
logical fallacy 120–121
logic (argument) 65, 118–122
Lorde, Audre 14, 166–168, 170–171
loving-kindness 90, 171–173
luxury 166
meditation 14–15, 22–24, 171–173
mental health 53, 93, 165, 176
Mind for Numbers, A (Oakley) 27–28
180
Index
mindfulness 15; gratitude practice 
153–155; imagining your ideal 
reader 110–111; loving kindness 
171–173; practising focus 22–23; 
for recharging 88–92; spontaneous 
writing 76–78; thinking caps 
134–135, 141; visualizing your goals 
48–49; see also meditation
mindset 32, 112, 114, 162
Miracle of Mindfulness, The (Thich Nhat 
Hanh) 90–92
motivation 11, 169
movement 15; changing your physical 
space 135, 155–156; dancing 
173–174; planning 51–52; stretching 
137–135, 141; walking 24–26, 29, 
49–50, 125; yoga 137–138
Mullins, Gerry 33
multitasking 6, 9, 42
music 4, 154
narrative plans 68–70, 107
neurodivergent thinking 63, 64, 67
note-taking 35–38, 43–44; see also 
Cornell method note-taking
Oakley, Barbara 27–28
On Writing (King) 28
pace, setting your 65
paper 61
paragraphs 50, 122–124
part-time study 53
pens and pencils 28, 44–45, 61
perfectionism 76, 82, 162–165
perfect sentence vortex 75–76, 163
pets 79, 86, 154, 176
PhD thesis 64, 75, 124, 133, 142, 144, 
148
Philosophy of Walking, A (Gros) 24
planning: dialogical 66–67; done 
lists 59–61; goal-setting 61–64; 
mindfulness practice 48–49; 
narrative plans 68–70, 107; as part 
of writing cycle 7, 9; visual plans 
71–74; working patterns 51–52; 
writing plans 49–50, 65–74, 115
polishing/copy editing 133–135; 
defamiliarization techniques 
139–141; languages other than 
English 140, 143, 148–151; 
mindfulness exercise 134–135; as 
part of writing cycle 8–9; posture 
advice 135–137; reflective practice 
151; style guides 138–139, 
141–144; see also copy editing
Pomodoro technique 55
posture 135–137
preferences 62
pre-research 29–31
preview mode thinking 27, 28
prioritization 49, 54
problem solving 21, 27, 33, 67, 93, 154
procrastination 11, 98, 99, 164
productivity 19, 43, 59, 62–64, 85, 87
Professors as Writers (Boice) 76, 77
progress tracking 59–61, 87, 157
project management 61–64, 72, 127
Provost, Gary 146–147
readers 68, 110–111, 122, 132
reading: paranoid versus reparative 
38–40; as part of writing cycle 
7–8; pre-research 29–31; reflection 
practice 46; ways of reading 31–35; 
see also speed reading
reading groups 40, 154
references 35, 142
research 24, 26–58
Research Degree Insiders (blog) 18
research notebooks 43–44
research question 36, 66, 70
resting and recharging: building into 
working pattern 51–52; clearing 
your workspace/headspace 101–
103, 127–128; creating boundaries 
for 95–98; critical distance breaks 
88, 92–95, 100, 106; getting back 
Index
181
to writing 103–107; hobbies 3, 
61, 99–101; naps 98–99; as part 
of writing cycle 9–10; reflective 
practice 108; as thinking mode 
27–28
restructuring 70, 109, 133–134, 156
reviewing and rewriting: changing your 
physical space 155–156; cherishing 
praise 159; corrections 157–158; 
feedback from supervisors 157–160; 
mindfulness practice 153–155; 
motivation for success 169; as 
part of writing cycle 9, 152–153; 
perfectionism 162–165; self-care 165–
168; when things go wrong 160–162
rewards 59–61, 74
rituals/traditions 103, 107–108
Sedgwick, Eve Kosofsky 38–40
self-care 44, 100, 151, 165–168, 170
self-doubt 82
sentences 75–76, 145–147
‘Shut Up and Write’ groups 58, 87, 154
signposting 125, 130
sleep/naps 28, 51–52, 98–99
social media 40, 59, 83
Socrates 66, 166
software 68, 82–84, 128, 129, 133, 154
Solnit, Rebecca 24
speed reading 34–35
stairs 122–124
steps in your argument 50, 122–124
story (narrative) 10–12, 68–70, 77
strengths 5, 46
stress 18, 81, 93, 112
stretching 135–137, 141
structural editing 94, 109, 123, 125–
131; see also restructuring
structure (of thesis) 69, 70
stuck, feeling 28, 57, 95, 100
style guides 138–139, 141–144
Stylish Academic Writing (Sword) 143
supervisors 9, 62, 66, 81, 148, 154, 
157–160
Sword, Helen 55, 138, 143
syllogism 119–121
talking 46, 59, 66–67, 74
technological tools 59, 62, 
82–84
Thesis Boot Camp 87
thinking: breathing exercise for 114; 
critical thinking 116–118, 132; 
learning to focus 22–24; mental 
modes 26–28; as part of writing 
cycle 8, 21–22; physical movement 
and 24–26; pre-research 29–30; 
reflection practice 46; scheduling 
thinking time 41–43; see also diffuse 
mode thinking; preview mode 
thinking
Thomson, Pat 103, 106, 167
time management 51–61
‘Tiny Text’ strategy 71
to-do lists 77
Touching Feeling (Sedgwick) 39–40
tracking your progress 59–61, 87, 157
Twitter 40
visualization 48–49, 90
visual plans 71–74
voice-to-text writing 77, 83, 156
Voltaire 164
walking 24–26, 29, 49–50
Wanderlust: A History of Walking 
(Solnit) 24
weaknesses 46
wellbeing (including ‘being well’): 
academic achievement and 118; 
building your toolbox 11; creating a 
culture of wellbeing 14; a different 
approach 2–3; integration into your 
research life 11, 18–20; see also 
self-care
white boards 28, 63
Whittaker, Steve (et al.) 128
working patterns 51–55
182
Index
working space 78–79, 101–103, 135, 
155–156
writer’s block 11, 80, 82, 93, 95, 175
writing: breathing exercises for 
112–113; expressive 44; generative 
70, 76–77, 80, 107, 168; getting 
back into 103–107; as part of 
writing cycle 7–9; perfect sentence 
vortex 75–76, 163; playing to your 
strengths 5; as self-care 165–168, 
170; setting-up your workspace 
78–79, 101–103, 155–156; ‘Shut 
Up and Write’ groups 58, 87, 
154; software 82–84; spontaneous 
76–78; style guides 138–139, 
141–144; Thesis Boot Camp 87; time 
management 55–58; tracking your 
progress 59–61; writing communities 
84–87; writing groups 85, 176; 
writing plans 49–50, 65–74, 115, 
125; see also drafts; writing journals 
43–45
yoga 137–138, 173
Your PhD Survival Guide (Firth, Connell 
& Freestone) 33, 87, 110, 132
