HOW TO
write a
successful
PhD
research
&
KATHLEEN McMILLAN & 
JONATHAN WEYERS
write a
successful
Phd
research
&
HOW TO
Pearson Education Limited
Edinburgh Gate
Harlow CM20 2JE
United Kingdom
Tel: +44 (0)1279 623623
Web: www.pearson.com/uk
First published 2013 (print and electronic)
© Pearson Education Limited 2013 (print and electronic)
The rights of Dr Kathleen McMillan and Dr Jonathan Weyers to be identified as the 
authors of this work have been asserted by them in accordance with the Copyright, 
Designs and Patents Act 1988.
The print publication is protected by copyright. Prior to any prohibited reproduction, 
storage in a retrieval system, distribution or transmission in any form or by any means, 
electronic, mechanical, recording or otherwise, permission should be obtained from 
the publisher or, where applicable, a licence permitting restricted copying in the United 
Kingdom should be obtained from the Copyright Licensing Agency Ltd, Saffron House, 
6–10 Kirby Street, London EC1N 8TS.
The ePublication is protected by copyright and must not be copied, reproduced, 
transferred, distributed, leased, licensed or publicly performed or used in any way except 
as specifically permitted in writing by the publishers, as allowed under the terms and 
conditions under which it was purchased, or as strictly permitted by applicable copyright 
law. Any unauthorised distribution or use of this text may be a direct infringement of the 
author’s and the publishers’ rights and those responsible may be liable in law accordingly.
All trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners. The use of any 
trademark in this text does not vest in the author or publisher any trademark ownership 
rights in such trademarks, nor does the use of such trademarks imply any affiliation with 
or endorsement of this book by such owners.
Pearson Education is not responsible for the content of third-party internet sites.
ISBN: 	
978-0-273-77391-7 (print)
	
978-0-273-77406-8 (eText) 
British Library Cataloguing-in-Publication Data
A catalogue record for the print edition is available from the British Library
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data 
A catalog record for the print edition is available from the Library of Congress
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
17 16 15 14 13 
Print edition typeset in 9.5/13pt Helvetica Neue Pro Roman by 3
Print edition printed by Ashford Colour Press Ltd., Gosport
SMARTER STUDY SKILLS 
v
Are there any secrets to successful study?
The simple answer is ‘yes’ – there are some essential skills, tips 
and techniques that can help you to improve your performance and 
success in all areas of your university studies.
These handy, easy-to-use guides to the most common areas where 
most students need help, provide accessible, straightforward 
practical tips and instant solutions that provide you with the tools and 
techniques that will enable you to improve your performance and get 
better results – and better grades!
Each book in the series allows you to assess and address a particular 
set of skills and strategies, in crucial areas of your studies. Each 
book then delivers practical, no-nonsense tips, techniques and 
strategies that will enable you to significantly improve your abilities and 
performance in time to make a difference.
The books in the series are:
●
●How to Write Essays & Assignments
●
●How to Write Dissertations & Project Reports
●
●How to Argue
●
●How to Improve your Maths Skills
●
●How to Use Statistics
●
●How to Succeed in Exams & Assessments
●
●How to Cite, Reference & Avoid Plagiarism at University
●
●How to Improve Your Critical Thinking & Reflective Skills
●
●How to Improve Your Memory for Study
For a complete handbook covering all of these study skills and more:
●
●The Study Skills Book
Get smart, get a head start!
SMARTER STUDY SKILLS
Instant answers to your most pressing 
university skills problems and queries
Contents 
vii
Contents
About the authors	
x
Preface	
xi
Acknowledgements	
xiii
How to Use this Book	
xv
INTRODUCTION
  1	 Taking on postgraduate studies – preliminary considerations	
3
  2	 Principles of postgraduateness – how to approach study at  
this new level	
16
GETTING STARTED
  3	 Identifying and framing research questions – how to set  
targets and formulate hypotheses	
29
  4 	Writing a proposal or research plan – how to outline your 
approach to postgraduate study	
40
KEY PhD RESEARCH SKILLS
  5	 Developing as a researcher – appraising your skills and  
gaining proficiency	
51
  6	 Planning and time management – how to complete your  
research and write-up on time	
61
  7	 Information literacy for PhD study – how to find relevant  
source material	
72
  8	 Accessing content from the literature – how to read and  
evaluate research publications	
82
  9	 Organising research materials – how to collect and file 
information and details of references	
93
INTERACTIONS WITH OTHERS DURING A RESEARCH 
PROGRAMME
10	 Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships – how to 
make the most of this important collaboration	
105
11	 Dealing with the highs and lows of being a postgraduate –  
how to respond positively to events and feelings	
118
viii 
Contents
12	 Working in a research team – how to balance research 
cooperation and autonomy	
127
13	 Teaching as a postgraduate – how to make the most of 
opportunities to tutor, demonstrate and lecture	
137
14	 Giving a research seminar or paper – how to deliver an  
effective spoken presentation	
153
15	 Preparing and presenting a poster – how to summarise  
and communicate your findings	
166
16	 Being appraised – how to respond to progress monitoring  
and other feedback on your work	
174
RESEARCH METHODS
17	 Critical thinking – how to apply method to arrive at valid,  
original ideas	
183
18	 Arriving at a position and supporting it – how to sift fact  
and opinion and express your conclusions	
198
19	 Research ethics and safety – how to conduct an  
appropriate, principled and safe investigation	
208
20	 Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism – how to refer 
appropriately to the results and ideas of others	
216
21	 Interpreting and presenting data – how to understand and 
produce graphs, tables and basic statistics	
238
22	 Aspects of qualitative research – how to obtain and  
analyse non-numerical information	
251
23	 Aspects of quantitative research – how to obtain and  
analyse numerical data	
266
24	 Experiments and field studies – how to design and  
conduct laboratory and field investigations	
281
WRITING UP YOUR RESEARCH
25	 Links between research, writing and speaking – how to  
gain from the interactions between investigation,  
communication and thought	
297
26	 The nature of scholarly writing – how to produce formal  
writing at PhD level	
307
27	 Scholarly writing style – how to construct effective  
academic text	
316
Contents 
ix
28	 Elements of a thesis – how to structure and write up the  
different sections	
333
29	 Becoming an autonomous writer – how to take control of  
the writing process	
348
30	 Thesis presentation – how to submit your work in the  
appropriate manner	
362
EXAMINATION AND BEYOND
31	 The PhD viva – how to prepare for and perform in your oral  
exam	
377
32	 Publishing your research – how to write and submit a  
successful paper	
387
33	 After your doctorate – how to make appropriate use of  
your qualification	
394
List of references	
405
x 
About the authors
About the authors
Dr Kathleen McMillan was formerly Academic Skills Advisor and 
Senior Lecturer, University of Dundee.
Dr Jonathan Weyers was formerly Director of Quality Assurance, 
University of Dundee.
Both are now freelance authors specialising in books on skills 
development in Higher Education.
This book represents a synthesis based on over 60 years of combined 
administrative, teaching and advisory experience, much of it devoted 
to postgraduate level. We have supervised and supported numerous 
PhD students, conducted postgraduate induction events and led skills 
workshops covering such diverse topics as thesis writing and personal 
development planning. Our backgrounds in the Arts and Humanities and 
Life Sciences respectively mean that our support has covered a wide 
range of subjects – from biology to orthopaedic surgery; information and 
communication technology to law, as well as English as a foreign language.
Above all, we have spoken to countless students, both individually 
and in focus groups, and have consulted with fellow academics about 
research skills that underpin a wide range of disciplines. As well as 
gaining PhD qualifications ourselves, we have also observed at close 
quarters our own children taking on postgraduate study and training.
Our former responsibilities involved drawing up regulations for PhD study, 
responding to research student feedback and a range of postgraduate 
committee work. We have carried out a number of relevant projects, most 
notably the writing and editing of an extensive Website providing guidance 
for postgraduates studying at the University of Dundee. Our collaborative 
writing has produced eight books on diverse aspects of learning and 
writing at university level. Most of these have appeared in several editions 
and they have been translated into a total of seven other languages.
In short, we have read widely, thought deeply about relevant issues and 
tested many ideas related to the postgraduate research experience. 
This book is a distillation of all the best tips and techniques we’ve 
come across or have developed ourselves.
Preface 
xi
Preface
We’re delighted that you’ve chosen How to Research and Write a 
Successful PhD and we’d like to think it’s because this book promises 
insight into the postgraduate experience and gives you plenty of useful 
tips to help you take on the challenge of a research degree.
We recognise that adjusting to this level of study is not always easy. 
There are challenges related to the necessary depth and originality 
of research work, but also to organising one’s activities over three 
or more years to culminate in what is possibly the longest and most 
complex piece of writing you will ever produce – the PhD thesis.
Of course, you will already have developed some essential skills from 
undergraduate days, especially if this involved an honours year in 
which a dissertation or research project was an important outcome. 
Nevertheless, there is a step change in the quality of work required for 
postgraduate research, which effectively must meet the full publication 
criteria of the academic world.
We start the book, therefore, with chapters that identify and discuss the 
essence of postgraduate work. We then move on to the identification 
of a topic for your research and how this can be framed as a formal 
research proposal. The next section deals with the essential skills of a 
postgraduate, especially those related to information literacy. The focus 
here is on taking responsibility for your own skills development as a 
trainee ‘professional researcher’. Following this, we move on to discuss 
the interactions you will have with others during your PhD research 
and how to make the most of these relationships, whether they be 
discussions with your supervisor(s) or progress committee, working 
within a research team or with the audience when presenting a seminar 
or poster.
Research methods are, of course, an essential component of 
postgraduate work. Whilst we cannot give specific advice here, we 
are able to focus on some essential generic skills, including those 
related to critical thinking, ethical research, citation, referencing, 
data acquisition and data analysis. The thesis write-up is the most 
difficult stage for many students, and here our emphasis is on generic 
xii 
Preface
guidance for becoming an autonomous writer. Along the way, we 
discuss how good writing is planned and constructed and how to 
structure and present your thesis. Finally, we deal with the PhD viva 
and the follow-up in terms of publishing your research and moving on 
to the next stage of your career.
We’ve tried to remain faithful to the idea that this book is one that you 
can dip into when you feel you need friendly advice and assistance. 
We had many types of students in mind when we decided to write this 
text and we hope that it will meet your own specific needs. Of course, 
research approaches vary across the wide spectrum of subjects 
studied at universities. These diverse discipline contexts have been 
accommodated by focusing on generic guidance but differentiating 
advice where appropriate, and particularly where research practice 
differs across the science and non-science divide.
We hope you will enjoy your years as a postgraduate researcher – 
certainly, you will find it a time of significant personal development, 
and eventually, with your contribution to knowledge and understanding 
placed in the public domain via your thesis and other publications, 
highly satisfying. We’d be pleased to hear your opinion of the book, any 
suggestions you have for additions and improvements, and especially if 
you feel that it has made a positive difference to the way you study and 
approach postgraduate research.
Kathleen McMillan and Jonathan Weyers
Acknowledgements 
xiii
Acknowledgements
As PhD students ourselves as well as supervisors, trainers and 
examiners of PhD students, we have gained much from interactions 
with colleagues and students. Much of our accumulated wisdom from 
these exchanges is expressed in this book. Some of this material was 
developed during the construction of the postgraduate section of the 
website Advance@Dundee (internal to the University of Dundee). We 
thank all of our colleagues and friends who helped us with that project, 
especially Margaret Adamson. We have also contributed to the training 
of PhD students, especially in the area of writing up, and we thank 
colleagues for the opportunity to develop our ideas and contribute in 
that area. 
Many others have influenced us and contributed in one way or another 
to the production of this book, including: Rami Abboud, Richard 
A’Brook, Michael Allardice, John Berridge, Richard Campbell, Cathy 
Caudwell, Louisa Cross, Stuart Cross, Margaret Forrest, Martin 
Glover, John Hillman, Andy Jackson, Allan Jones, Rod Jones, Peter 
McEleavy, Janet McLean, Christine Milburn, Kirsty Millar, Dave Murie, 
Fiona O’Donnell, Richard Parsons, Neil Paterson, Jane Prior, Colin 
Reid, Mhairi Robb, Dorothy Smith, Eric Smith, Gordon Spark, David 
Walker, Lorraine Walsh and David Wishart. We are indebted to the 
support and interest of the Royal Literary Fund and particularly the 
RLF Writing Fellows in our university, distinguished authors in their own 
right, who have given wise words of counsel: Bill Kirton, Brian Callison, 
Jonathan Falla and Gordon Meade. Also, we acknowledge those at 
other universities who have helped frame our thoughts, especially our 
good friends Rob Reed, Nicki Hedge and Esther Daborn, as well as the 
membership of the Scottish Effective Learning Advisors who work so 
energetically to help students to develop many of the key skills that are 
addressed in this book. 
We owe a special debt to the senior colleagues who encouraged various 
projects that contributed to this book, and who allowed us the freedom 
to pursue various avenues of related scholarship, especially Robin 
Adamson, James Calderhead, Chris Carter, Alan Davidson, Ian Francis, 
Rod Herbert, Eric Monaghan, Graham Nicholson and David Swinfen. 
xiv 
Acknowledgements
At Pearson Education, we have had excellent support and advice, 
especially from Steve Temblett, Simon Lake, Rob Cottee, Tim Parker, 
Ros Woodward and David Hemsley.
Finally, we would like to say thanks to our long-suffering but 
nevertheless enthusiastic families: Derek, Keith, Nolwenn, Fiona, Tom 
and Eilidh; and Mary, Paul and James, all of whom helped in various 
capacities.
Publisher’s acknowledgements
The sections ‘Designing experiments’ and ‘Sampling’ in Chapter 24 are 
partly derived from material in Jones, Reed and Weyers (2012), with 
permission. Table 2.1 is reproduced courtesy of the SCQF Partnership. 
Table 20.1 is reproduced courtesy of Dr Eugene Garfield.
In some instances we have been unable to trace the owners of 
copyright material, and we would appreciate any information that would 
enable us to do so.
How to use this book 
xv
How to use this book
Each chapter in How to Research & Write a Successful PhD has been 
organised and designed to be as clear and simple as possible. The 
chapters are self-contained and deal with particular aspects of the 
subject matter so that you can read the book through from beginning 
to end, or in sections, or dip into specific chapters as you need them. 
At the start of each chapter you’ll find a brief paragraph and a Key 
topics list that let you know what is included. There is also a list of 
Key terms at this point that highlights words that may be new to 
you or may be used in a particular way in the chapter. Should you be 
uncertain about the meaning of these words, you will find definitions in 
the Glossary at the end of the book.
Within each chapter, the text is laid out to help you absorb the key 
concepts easily, using headings and bulleted lists to enable you to find 
what you need. Relevant examples are contained in figures, tables and 
boxes which complement the text. The inset boxes are of three types:
Smart tip boxes emphasise key advice that we think will be 
particularly useful to you.
✔
Information boxes provide additional information that will 
broaden your understanding by giving examples and definitions.
i
Query boxes raise questions for you to consider about your 
personal approach to the topic.
?
Finally, the Action Points section provides three suggestions for 
possible follow-up action as you consider ideas further.
Introduction
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
3
Preliminary considerations
Taking on postgraduate studies
1
Studying for a PhD will involve the exploration of uncharted 
territory not only in your research project, but also in your personal 
development. Making the right choices for project, supervisor and 
department are important. This chapter introduces the issues to 
be considered when applying for a studentship and outlines the 
milestones of a typical PhD.
Key topics
➔
➔Being realistic about postgraduate research
➔
➔Deciding what to study, where to study and with whom
➔
➔The application process
➔
➔Approaching postgraduate study in the right frame of mind
This book starts from the assumption that you have already made 
the fundamental decision to carry out postgraduate research. There 
are many potential reasons why you might wish to take this direction, 
including:
●
●a desire to contribute to the sum of human knowledge and 
understanding;
●
●the wish to stretch your intellect to its limits;
●
●a deep interest in a particular subject area or topic;
●
●the chance to learn alongside an acknowledged expert;
●
●the hope of making a difference to the world and its people;
●
●the need to gain a qualification that will prepare you for a desired 
career path;
●
●an attempt to delay the time when you must leave the university 
environment.
4 
Introduction
Whatever your motive(s), you will have a significant personal stake in 
this project – your time, money, family and future career may all be 
affected by your decision. It makes sense to approach this undertaking 
with a clear view of what you need to do to accomplish the goal of 
gaining a doctoral degree.
Being realistic about postgraduate research
Many of the initial feelings of becoming a postgraduate research 
student will mirror those you may have felt as a new undergraduate 
student. You will possibly move to another location, adopt different 
patterns of working, form relationships with new people and have 
to come to terms with a higher level of study. Yet, in other ways, 
becoming a new postgraduate will be very different from that 
undergraduate experience because:
●
●there is no ‘road map’ in terms of a syllabus and course/module 
structure;
●
●there will be far fewer students studying for the same degree and, in 
all probability, no one carrying out exactly the same research;
●
●to a far greater extent, you will be expected to direct your own 
activities and create your own goals.
Understandably, this might cause some apprehension. However, you 
should take confidence from the fact that that you have demonstrated the 
ability to cope through your earlier experiences and qualification(s). Dealing 
with the challenges of postgraduate research will, nevertheless, require 
a proactive approach. To channel your effort effectively, it is vital that you 
comprehend the nature and requirements of work at this new level.
One key way in which a postgraduate’s life differs from that of an 
undergraduate is in work-rate. Usually, PhD students are expected 
to work a normal 9–5 day, just as if you were in regular employment. 
Some types of study are particularly demanding, requiring lengthy 
sequences of reading or inconveniently timed procedures. Supervisors 
often lead by example, putting in long shifts from very early starts to 
their days, and may expect you to do the same. Bear in mind too that 
you will not have normal student holidays. Your leave entitlement will 
be determined by your studentship. Most state a 6–8 weeks’ allowance 
per year, and you should expect to plan ahead and inform your 
supervisor when you would like to take leave.
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
5
Most PhD research projects are allocated three years of funding and 
are expected to be completed within this time, although some stretch 
beyond this. The UK research councils (Ch 5) monitor completion 
rates and penalise universities whose students tend not to submit on 
time, so expect keen interest in your progress as a result. Universities 
are also required to meet certain quality standards in relation to the 
What will postgraduate study be like?
Here are some questions to ponder before you start:
■
■Will it be easy? No, because that’s not really the point. The aim is 
to stretch your knowledge and understanding to its limits. That’s a 
tough experience.
■
■Will it be enjoyable? Not always – you can expect up and downs. 
Sometimes, you may experience extreme elation, for example, when 
you make a research breakthrough. At other times, it may seem like 
a slow grind.
■
■Will I be able to cope? Very probably. Your undergraduate 
honours degree classification (almost certainly an upper second or 
first) demonstrates that you have the ability to adapt to this more 
independent, self-directed style of learning.
■
■Will it expand my mind? Almost certainly, yes. It has the potential 
to take you to intellectual places you cannot imagine when you 
start.
■
■Will it develop my skills? Definitely. As well as project-specific 
skills, you can expect to develop many generic skills and especially 
those relating to expressing yourself in writing.
■
■Will it be rewarding? Not necessarily in monetary terms (at least, 
not in the short term). Rather, you can legitimately expect fulfilment 
at a deeper personal level.
■
■Will it help me to get a job? Don’t bank on it. A postgraduate 
research qualification can act like a double-edged sword. It might 
allow a brilliant fit with a job specification; on the other hand, you 
may end up seeming to be over-qualified.
■
■Will it be worth the effort? Absolutely. The points above 
represent a reality check – because life often isn’t as 
straightforward and smooth as we’d like. By the time you finish 
your PhD and are walking across that graduation platform you will 
be a very different person: enriched, fulfilled and on top of your 
world.
?
6 
Introduction
postgraduate research experience, and may be reviewed periodically 
by external bodies. The relevant codes of practice, which apply 
throughout the UK, set standards for such matters as admission, 
supervision, ethics and treatment of appeals and complaints.
Influences on your PhD performance
Examples of stimuli from different sources:
■
■Yourself – you set your own agenda and work-rate; provide project 
ideas; establish the standard and efficiency of your work; and supply 
the impetus to complete on time.
■
■Supervisor – imposes standards and work ethic; provides project 
ideas and working environment; and gives feedback.
■
■Department and University – provide a regulatory framework 
for supervision and facilities; an agenda for monitoring progress; 
administer progress monitoring schemes; set up examinations; and 
award your qualification.
■
■External agencies, such as the Quality Assurance Agency 
and the Higher Education Academy – create benchmarks for 
University regulation; publish codes of practice; audit how these are 
implemented; and monitor student satisfaction.
i
Table 1.1 provides a sequence of the key events and milestones for 
a typical research project, together with an indication of standard 
work activities and how these will be associated with different 
thought processes and writing skills. Looking at relevant sections 
of this table from time to time should assist you to gauge your 
progress and assess your training requirements. You may find that 
progress monitoring meetings will prompt such evaluation, but should 
understand that, at this level, the onus is on you to set a personal 
agenda.
You will find that you will be more productive in your research if you set 
aside time to socialise, relax and pursue your hobbies and interests. 
Research students in certain subjects may find research in libraries and 
archives somewhat lonely. Meeting other postgraduates socially can 
make all the difference. Sharing accommodation could be one way. 
Also, postgraduates can join any University society that interests them, 
including the postgraduate society.
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
7
Table 1.1  A timeline for postgraduate study and the activities and academic development associated with this level. This is 
necessarily a generic model and so events and research work will differ according to individual contexts, disciplines and institutions. 
In particular, where a postgraduate is studying part-time or does not have a continued physical presence in a department, some of the 
following points will be slightly different or even irrelevant. Personal development in thinking and writing will depend on the individual.
Sequence
Events and milestones
Focus of work activities
Development of thinking and writing
Pre-registration
Identifying research field, institution, 
supervisor
Scoping possible areas of research
Decision making
Writing and submitting a research 
proposal
Writing the proposal
Basic review of research area and 
potential topics
Registration for study
Completing forms
Mental preparedness
Administration
Gaining access to IT and library facilities
Year 1
Initial supervisor meeting 
Setting up work space; discussing 
departmental and supervisor’s policies 
for postgraduate study
Recognising probationary context
Regular meetings with supervisor
Research planning
Learning to plan
Literature search
Identifying literature
Learning to manage time
Standardising information collected 
on source material
Organising records of sources; 
learning how to use referencing 
software if appropriate
Grouping resources thematically; thinking 
critically about content
Literature review
Initial assessment of literature
Analytical and critical thinking
Postgraduate training
Training in research or other practical 
techniques; safety induction as 
appropriate
Development of skills
Continued overleaf
8 
Introduction
Sequence
Events and milestones
Focus of work activities
Development of thinking and writing
Research planning
Designing research strategy including 
methodological approach and 
equipment if appropriate
Clarification of research topic and related 
thinking
Leading undergraduate tutorials or 
demonstrating
Tutorial, lab or field work (sometimes 
lecturing)
Planning ahead; thinking through 
assessment and feedback matters
Seeking ethical approval
Writing application for ethical approval 
Considering ethical aspects of your 
research
Experimental work (if relevant)
Pilot work
Designing experiments; planning the 
necessary resourcing; analysing data
Reading of literature and attendance 
at seminars and meetings
Note-making, listening and note-taking
Growing awareness of work in the field
On-going literature searching and 
reading; critical appraisal of existing 
work
Maintaining a research diary/log/
notebook as record of work
Deeper thinking about the research field; 
beginnings of original thought
1st year report submission for 
evaluation and examination 
Responding to feedback from 
supervisor’s weekly reports/meetings
Submitting weekly reports to supervisor
Progress Monitoring Committee
Writing about and defending research 
ideas 
Thinking more deeply about the research 
field
Year 2
Transfer to PhD regulation
Agreeing action plan for research and 
completion with supervisor 
Developing experimental techniques
Regular meetings with supervisor
Experimentation/study 
Writing up draft results and conclusions
Working within the research team 
Contributions to group research 
projects
Thinking beyond personal research topic; 
expanding knowledge the field
Continuing observational or 
experimental work (where relevant)
Carrying out work of high quality that 
might appear in the thesis
Collecting and analysing data
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
9
Scheduled meetings with supervisor
Assessment of significance of data
Writing up draft results and conclusions
Continuing observational or 
experimental work (where relevant)
Follow-up data collection
‘Completing the story’ by adding missing 
data or redesigning approach
Departmental presentations
Preparation of presentations
Receiving appraisal and feedback from 
knowledgeable peers
Progress Monitoring Committee
Submission of progress reports and 
evaluation of achievements thus far
Preparing draft material for thesis
Year 3
(and possibly 4)
Literature review
Return to literature for confirmation; 
refining and/or expanding ideas and 
carrying out further reading
Drafting of Introduction; contextualising 
your approach
Final observational or experimental 
work (where relevant)
Data collection
Collecting and analysing data; drafting of 
notes for materials and methods; results; 
early conclusions
Thesis writing proper
Attempting to write a near-final 
version, possibly using notes and early 
draughts as source
Writing first draft; thinking anew about 
approaches and results and their context
Submission of draughts to supervisor
Writing to deadlines and attending 
meetings
Considering feedback on your work
Final editing and proofing
Writing to deadlines
Checking for consistency and 
completeness; creating reference list
Arranging for soft binding of thesis 
and submitting thesis
Printing ‘final’ version of thesis
Finding last-minute errors
Viva voce examination
Defending your thesis and the work 
behind it
Making required corrections
Publicising your ideas and findings
Writing poster presentation; conference 
paper; article for publication
Adapting to new or different styles of writing; 
responding to feedback from referees
Graduation
Applying for jobs; revision of CV
Thinking about a future career
10 
Introduction
As a postgraduate, your financial situation will depend on what sort of 
funding underpins the project. In some disciplines, particularly science, 
the research group leader will already have applied for a studentship 
or negotiated a quota studentship from a funding body or research 
council. These studentships normally include a full financial package 
intended to cover university fees, materials, some travel funding for 
conferences, and a stipend (payment) to cover living expenses for 
the student. Research council grants are standardised (with London 
weighting, if applicable), but some industry- or university-funded 
positions may pay better. You may be able to balance your budget 
by carrying out teaching duties (Ch 13) or minimising accommodation 
costs by acting as a hall warden. Having a job in the evenings 
is technically possible but usually is frowned upon as it will limit 
significantly both your study time and energy reserves.
Deciding what to study, where to study and  
with whom
In essence, there are two types of postgraduate project:
1	 Those where the research aims have been defined in some detail as 
part of the process of gaining funding for the studentship.
Developing your social life as a postgraduate
Here are some tips for getting involved:
■
■Find out about the postgraduate society and the events it 
organises.
■
■Locate the postgraduate common room within the department – or 
perhaps the room used jointly by postgraduates and staff – and visit 
it regularly to meet up with your peers.
■
■Discover whether there are any university facilities for postgraduates 
(some institutions have a postgraduate study area and/or a 
postgraduate club/bar) – and check these out.
■
■Explore the opportunities for sport and exercise.
■
■Join clubs that interest you.
■
■Take part in student union activities, including representation.
■
■Enquire about becoming an assistant warden of a hall of residence 
(with the possible bonus of living rent-free).
✔
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
11
2	 Those where personal or external funding is available for a 
studentship, but the precise project has not been defined, or only a 
general subject area is suggested.
Both types may be advertised in relevant academic publications or 
online. In addition, many departments will accept independently funded 
postgraduates who apply autonomously.
The first ‘closed’ kind of project is more common in science-related 
disciplines. Choosing which of these positions to apply for will depend 
on factors such as:
●
●the attractiveness of the project;
●
●the reputation of the supervisor (who is often specified);
●
●the reputation of the institution;
●
●the stipend and other financial issues;
●
●personal desires, such as a wish to move (or not to move) to a 
specific location.
In many cases, the topic may seem rather esoteric and possibly 
narrow. You may need to carry out some research to find out what 
it might involve and where it might lead. You should be encouraged, 
however, by the fact that the proposal is likely to have been through 
a rigorous peer review process where its relevance, topicality and 
chances of success will have been assessed.
The second ‘open’ type of project occurs more frequently in 
arts-orientated PhD programmes. Here, you would be required to 
identify a specific topic and possibly frame a research proposal (Ch 3). 
Sometimes finding a supervisor and/or a source of funding are tasks 
that fall to the student, sometimes the supervisor and/or funding 
are allocated by the host department. The supervisor is generally 
conducting research into a similar or related field.
In many ways the student–supervisor relationship is one of the most 
important aspects of postgraduate study. You may need to assess 
whether you feel compatible with a potential supervisor, and vice versa. 
This is necessarily a personal matter. Chapter 10 details the nature of 
this partnership and if you need to select a supervisor, this may help 
you develop a personal set of criteria. One of the best ways to find out 
about supervisors is to seek the opinion of those already studying in 
the department if possible.
12 
Introduction
Having multiple supervisors
There are a number of scenarios where you might have more than one 
supervisor. They might have complementary expertise relevant to your 
project, or one may be performing a mentoring act for another who 
does not yet fulfil the university regulations for solo supervision, which 
usually requires experience in the role as a co-supervisor. Throughout 
this book we will use the term ‘supervisor’, while acknowledging 
that on occasion, this might properly be ‘supervisors’.
i
Factors to take into account when framing a project 
or deciding on the suitability of a project
Make sure you are making an informed choice by doing background 
reading, speaking to a range of staff and students, and asking the right 
questions when you have the opportunity.
You may wish to consider the following:
■
■Your personal level of interest in the topic. This will help to 
motivate you through three or more years of study and when things 
aren’t going well.
■
■The underlying problem that the research aims to tackle. This 
needs to satisfy any inclination you have for ‘applicability’, or 
convince you that the topic is interesting in its own right.
■
■The research approach. This may seem easy or hard; up-to-date 
or established-but-uninteresting; risky or secure in providing results; 
innovative or tried-and-tested. Decide which options best match 
your personality and ambition.
■
■Availability of resources or experimental material. To make 
good progress, you will need ready access to research sources or 
experimental data, or both.
■
■Feasibility. A highly interesting project might be thwarted by time 
constraints, sheer difficulty or methodological problems.
■
■Depth. You will develop more advanced skills by tackling a more 
difficult subject.
■
■Quality of support and supervision. You will need to get on with 
your supervisor, but this presupposes that they will be available 
to meet you. A noted authority may lack the time to see you as 
frequently as you might wish.
■
■Impact on your CV and career options. This may not be obvious 
at the outset, although it should be possible to assess the types of 
‘sellable’ skills you will be able to develop.
✔
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
13
The application process
The application process for ‘closed’ projects is very similar to applying 
for a job: the PhD post is advertised by the university in the appropriate 
publications. These announcements are frequently released between 
January and the summer period for the forthcoming academic year, so 
start looking early. Research council funding for postgraduate study 
is awarded to individual institutions and students seeking funded 
places must apply through their chosen institution and not directly to 
the relevant research council. Further information is available on the 
websites of each of the research councils. In general, the minimum 
stipulated requirement for a higher degree course is a ‘good honours 
degree’. This usually means an upper second or better – although 
criteria may vary with different admissions tutors, and the popularity of 
the project area. Normally you will be asked to submit your CV including 
your expected degree classification if you have not already graduated. 
You may then be short-listed for an interview. The format of this will vary 
with institution but generally consists of an initial, formal interview before 
a postgraduate committee, frequently a panel of three academics.
Whatever procedure is required, you can assume that you will be 
asked for a reference giving an account of your suitability to become a 
research student. This should be written by someone who knows you 
What might they ask me at interview?
Be prepared to answer questions of the following types:
■
■Why do you want to do a PhD?
■
■What are your future career goals?
■
■What is your understanding of the general subject area?
■
■Why do you want to pursue this particular topic?
■
■Can you outline your current research (Honours project) or previous 
research projects?
■
■What do you see as the key research questions?
■
■How would you approach this research?
■
■Would you enjoy living in the area for the following three or more 
years?
■
■What are your hobbies/interests outside of your academic studies?
?
14 
Introduction
well and can testify to your performance academically and your level 
of interest in the area of work you wish to pursue. It would be wise, 
therefore, to ask a member of the academic staff in your most recent 
university or college if they would be willing to do this for you. If the 
institution you are applying to has a special form for references then 
be sure to give that to your referee as soon as possible to allow them 
time to complete it. Otherwise, just ask for either a sealed or an open 
reference and include it with your application letter as noted above.
As well as a formal interview you will normally have a more informal 
chat with your potential supervisor. This is an ideal opportunity for 
you to ask questions and for you both to get a feel for whether or not 
you can get along together, both professionally, and on a personal 
level. After all, you are about to embark on at least three years of work 
together, so it is very important that you get along. You should then be 
informed shortly after the interview(s) whether or not you have been 
successful in gaining the position. If you are unsuccessful, do not be 
disheartened, as competition for studentships is often high – instead, 
view the interview experience positively as a way of gaining confidence 
in answering questions about yourself.
Approaching postgraduate study in the right 
frame of mind
The competition in research is fierce. You should be in no doubt that 
working for a doctoral degree requires immense commitment and 
the time requirements are very demanding. You will be stretched 
intellectually and as well as strong perseverance and determination, 
you will need to be organised and efficient. Aspects of your 
non-working life will probably change.
At the same time, it is a privilege to be allowed to enter the world 
of research. You will already have demonstrated that you have the 
necessary ability, but this sheltered environment will provide you 
with opportunities for contact with like-minded and similarly qualified 
individuals; the chance to work with and learn from noted authorities, 
some of whom will be authentic geniuses; and the space, time and 
working conditions to test your own mind to its limits.
To be successful, and in particular to complete your studies on time, 
you will need to be clear about your overall aims and the routes 
required to achieve them. It will not be possible to map out all your 
1  Taking on postgraduate studies 
15
work accurately and in detail, otherwise it would not be worth doing. 
Nevertheless, you should try to anticipate your training and skills 
needs; you should be proactive in arranging the necessary meetings, 
visits and in gaining access to research materials and facilities; and 
possibly most important of all, you will need to understand the need for 
‘closure’ (most research is, after all, open-ended) and willing to accept 
the compromises required for completion in terms of a written thesis.
Most PhD students experience highs and lows as they progress 
through what is necessarily uncharted territory. It will be important 
to remain upbeat during episodes of apparent frustration or 
disappointment (Ch 11). Recognising this aspect of research life and 
remaining well-motivated is a vital key to successful postgraduate 
study.
Action points
1.1  Consider your strengths and weaknesses in relation to 
the challenges of PhD research. Showing awareness of these at 
interview might be beneficial to your cause. This self-knowledge 
may also help you to take anticipatory action, for example, by 
signing up for additional training (Ch 5).
1.2  Review the timeline for postgraduate study (Table 1.1) and 
create a set of targets for yourself. Think about where you would 
like to be in your research at different times. The majority of PhDs 
are completed in a hurry at the end of the studentship period, 
and sometimes beyond (often, importantly, once the funding has 
ended). Although research work is necessarily unpredictable, 
resolve to be among the minority who have planned their work 
carefully and given themselves the best possible chance of 
completing on time, avoiding a last-minute rush.
1.3  Get yourself organised. Regarding the points made in 1.2 
above, one of the keys to meeting targets is being organised in 
your work, so ensure your filing (both computer and hard copy) 
is in good order right from the start – and periodically review its 
status, giving it an overhaul from time to time. Ensure that you 
always keep a back-up of all your files.
16 
Introduction
2
How to approach study 
at this new level
Principles of 
postgraduateness
How does research at PhD level differ from that carried out for an 
undergraduate degree? Gaining an understanding of your new level 
of study is important to ensure your efforts meet your supervisor’s 
and examiners’ expectations. This chapter provides insights into 
your new study environment; your role and those of others; and the 
challenges of being a researcher.
Key topics
➔
➔Recognising the challenges and expectations of postgraduate 
study
➔
➔Understanding the criteria for the award of a PhD
➔
➔Joining the academic community
Making the step up to doctoral study may have been an easy decision, 
or it may have been one that required prolonged thought. You may 
have been confident that you were ready for this level, or you may 
have thought anxiously about whether you were ready for the inevitable 
academic challenges. Even if you haven’t thought deeply about this 
matter at all, there is merit in considering what lies ahead and what will 
be required of you. Several different sources will exert an influence, 
including:
●
●The academic community, as represented by the University and 
your examiner(s) – for example, what will they require of you in terms 
of standard of work and the presentation and examination of your 
thesis?
●
●Your supervisor – for example, what would he or she like you to 
achieve, perhaps as a contribution to a wider research theme?
2  Principles of postgraduateness 
17
●
●Yourself – for example, what are your personal goals in terms of 
expanding your understanding and developing skills? 
This chapter deals primarily with the requirements of the academic 
community – arguably the most universally significant; expectations in 
the other areas will depend on your circumstances; they are covered 
particularly in Chapters 1, 5, 10 and 33. 
Recognising the challenges and expectations 
of postgraduate study
The challenges of postgraduate research will differ depending on 
your field and topic within it. Most people who have successfully 
completed a doctorate would acknowledge that they had to develop 
old skills as well as acquire new ones, especially in the earlier stages 
of postgraduate studies (Ch 5). Your research may lead you into 
new fields where you have to adopt new approaches or techniques 
(Chs 17–24). You may need to learn how to use sophisticated specialist 
software to help with data analysis (Ch 23). You will certainly need to 
develop the scholarly writing expertise expected at postgraduate level 
(Chs 26–30).
Your institution will require certain things from you, including:
●
●the dedication of time and energy to complete your project on time;
●
●the application of intellectual integrity to your research task so you 
conduct your research honestly and ethically;
●
●a contribution to the collegiate environment of your institution, 
possibly through the teaching activities involved in tutoring or 
demonstrating or participating concurrently in other research 
projects.
Gaining expertise
One way of describing your achievement at the end of a postgraduate 
degree is that you will have carried out a sufficiently extensive and 
deep investigation to have become one of the world experts in your 
particular subject area. The subject may be narrow, and in fast moving-
topics, the expertise temporary, but this description provides an 
excellent overarching goal for your studies.
✔
18 
Introduction
Your supervisor will anticipate, in addition, that you can:
●
●organise your time to meet the demands of the research;
●
●participate in purposeful meetings to review the work in progress;
●
●approach your studies with a questioning and open mind;
●
●analyse and critique work in your field;
●
●analyse and critique your own work;
●
●demonstrate original thinking; 
●
●be productive in the conduct of your research and related writing.
In return, your own commitment to the research process will lead to 
some expectations of your chosen institution, for instance, that:
●
●you will be able to work under an expert in the field, who will provide 
suitable supervision;
●
●you will be allowed (within reason) to do your research in your own 
way but under the tutelage of your supervisor;
●
●you will be provided with opportunities to consult with your 
supervisor on a regular basis; and that
●
●you will have access to the facilities to enable you to conduct the 
research professionally and thoroughly.
As a graduate, you may have carried out a research project or 
dissertation at undergraduate honours level; moreover, having been 
accepted for postgraduate studies, it is likely that you will have 
performed well in that exercise. The experience will certainly have 
given you a flavour of what to expect in a PhD. However, the criteria 
for postgraduate work are generally more rigorous than work at 
undergraduate level. Details are naturally discipline-dependent, but in 
general, your research will be expected to be:
●
●More extensive. You will have a longer period to carry out your 
investigation, so both your investigation and its write-up can and 
should be wide-ranging, encompassing all relevant aspects of your 
field and possibly beyond.
●
●Deeper. In one to three full-time years of study (or more), you will 
have the time and resources to look into your topic in greater detail 
and to investigate each element fully.
●
●Original. You will have the opportunity to display innovation in the 
way you tackle the project, whereas at honours level you might been 
on safer ground, perhaps following the approach of a previous study.
2  Principles of postgraduateness 
19
●
●More rigorous. Essentially, the outcome of your research needs to 
be of publishable standard. It must have a theoretical underpinning 
and use appropriate research methodologies. This means that the 
methods must be reliable, the results repeatable (in the sciences), 
the analysis wholly appropriate and the conclusions valid. A 
judgement on this will be carried out by an authority in the area 
(the external examiner) or, if you submit parts of your thesis to a 
journal, by academics with knowledge of your subject (see Chs 31 
and 32).
Another way of approaching this matter is to consider the different 
aspects of study, including the relevant skills that are required. 
Table 2.1 provides an example listing of expectations under five 
relevant headings of this type. This should provide a benchmark with 
which you can judge both your present status and later progress.
Understanding the criteria for the award of 
a PhD
As an undergraduate, you will probably have been familiar with 
‘learning outcomes’ and ‘marking criteria’ related to your courses. 
These are normally published in the course handbook and would have 
defined what the academic staff expected you to be able to achieve, 
and, consequently, their benchmarks for assessing your assignments 
and exam papers.
Due to the widely differing nature of each PhD project, and the 
necessarily ‘unexpected’ outcomes of this type of research activity, 
there can be no similar detailed information at this level. However, your 
completed work will be assessed by an experienced external examiner 
and, normally following an oral exam (often referred to as the ‘viva’ 
which is short for the Latin ‘viva voce’, meaning ‘by the living voice’), 
they will use their professional judgement on whether to recommend 
the award of the relevant degree (Ch 31).
Universities differ, but the broad criteria used in this judgement 
essentially follow the expectation that your thesis should be ‘novel, 
reliable and personally owned’, that is, showing original research, be 
of publishable quality and be all your own work unless the contribution 
of others is acknowledged. The different sections of the thesis (Ch 28) 
provide opportunities to verify that you have satisfied these criteria, as 
summarised in Table 2.2.
20 
Introduction
Table 2.1  A description of the level of study expected in postgraduate 
research. Taken from the ‘level descriptors’ published by the Scottish Credit 
and Qualifications Framework (www.scqf.org.uk, accessed 16 June 2012). In 
that system, doctoral studies are placed at Level 12, with Level 11 covering 
Masters and Level 10 undergraduate honours. This source allows further 
direct comparisons to be made between expectations for undergraduate and 
postgraduate work, should you wish to make them.
Aspect
Postgraduate (doctoral level) descriptors
1  Knowledge and 
understanding
Demonstrate and/or work with:
• A critical overview of a subject/discipline, including 
critical understanding of the principal theories, principles 
and concepts.
• A critical, detailed and often leading knowledge 
and understanding at the forefront of one or more 
specialisms.
• Knowledge and understanding that is generated through 
personal research or equivalent work that makes a 
significant contribution to the development of the 
subject/discipline.
2  Practice: 
applied knowledge 
and understanding
• Use a significant range of the principal skills, techniques, 
practices and materials associated with a subject/
discipline.
• Use and enhance a range of complex skills, techniques, 
practices and materials at the forefront of one or more 
specialisms.
• Apply a range of standard and specialised research/
equivalent instruments and techniques of enquiry.
• Design and execute research, investigative or 
development projects to deal with new problems and 
issues.
• Demonstrate originality and creativity in the development 
and application of new knowledge, understanding and 
practices.
• Practise in the context of new problems and 
circumstances.
3  Generic 
cognitive skills
• Apply a constant and integrated approach to critical 
analysis, evaluation and synthesis of new and complex 
ideas, information and issues.
• Identify, conceptualise and offer original and creative 
insights into new, complex and abstract ideas, 
information and issues.
• Develop creative and original responses to problems and 
issues.
• Deal with very complex and/or new issues and make 
informed judgements in the absence of complete or 
consistent data/information.
2  Principles of postgraduateness 
21
4  Communication, 
ICT and numeracy 
skills
Use a significant range of advanced and specialised skills 
as appropriate to a subject/discipline, for example:
• Communicate at an appropriate level to a range of 
audiences and adapt communication to the context and 
purpose.
• Communicate at the standard of published academic 
work and/or critical dialogue and review with peers and 
experts in other specialisms.
• Use a range of software to support and enhance work at this 
level and specify software requirements to enhance work.
• Critically evaluate numerical and graphical data.
5  Autonomy, 
accountability 
and working with 
others
• Exercise a high level of autonomy and initiative in 
professional and equivalent activities.
• Take full responsibility for own work and/or significant 
responsibility for the work of others.
• Demonstrate leadership and/or originality in tackling and 
solving problems and issues.
• Work in ways which are reflective, self-critical and based 
on research/evidence.
• Deal with complex ethical and professional issues.
• Make informed judgements on new and emerging issues 
not addressed by current professional and/or ethical 
codes or practices.
Table 2.2  A mapping of basic thesis components to the criteria of novelty, 
reliability and ownership. Ticks indicate parts of the thesis where you will have 
an opportunity to demonstrate that you have satisfied the criteria. Not every 
thesis will incorporate all these components (Ch 28).
Thesis component 
(where present)
Criteria for successful postgraduate work
Novelty
Reliability
Ownership
Declaration 
3
Acknowledgements
3
Introduction
3
Materials and methods
3
Results
3
Discussion
3
Conclusions
3
3
References
3
22 
Introduction
●
●The requirement for novelty. This ties in with the expectation that 
the work is publishable due to its originality. Your thesis needs to 
present a new contribution to the literature in your field, advancing the 
academic community’s knowledge and understanding. You will have 
opportunities to establish this in the Introduction and Conclusions 
parts of the thesis, where, amongst other things, you should place 
your work in its academic context and explain why it is novel.
●
●The need for reliability. Here, definitions differ slightly among 
disciplines. In the sciences, a key meaning is that, potentially, your 
work must be capable of repetition by a ‘competent technician’, that is, 
someone with similar skills to you. This explains the emphasis on detail 
in the Materials and Methods section, and for information on replication 
and statistical analysis to be provided in the Results section. In many 
non-sciences, the emphasis is rather that the ‘position’ you arrive at 
must derive from verifiable sources and follow a logical argument.
What does ‘publishable’ mean?
This means that if you submitted your work in the relevant format 
and writing style for a typical academic journal in your subject area, it 
would be likely to satisfy the criteria for publication if space allowed. 
Each journal publishes its expectations for submitted work covering 
both format and quality of work and it is worth studying some of these 
outlines for your subject area.
?
Valuing and overcoming perfectionism in research
An inherent paradox in research is the fact that it requires and rewards 
perfectionism, yet this very quality is an obstacle to completion and 
closure of a research project. For example, perfectionism and rigour 
are required in the accuracy of reporting and language (Ch 26); in 
conducting experiments or making accurate observations (Chs 22–24); 
and in tracking down and acknowledging all possible sources (Chs 7, 
8, 20, 21). Anything else will be heavily criticised. However, almost 
by definition, research is never complete: there are rarely definitive 
‘answers’, and there is always the need for further study. Where you 
draw a line under your work is often dictated by time pressures rather 
than a natural end point. Compromise will be required in terms of 
imprecise methods, incomplete data, missing information and uncertain 
conclusions, and that cuts against the grain of perfectionism. The 
mistake is in thinking that it can possibly be otherwise.
✔
2  Principles of postgraduateness 
23
‘All my own work’ – the thesis declaration
Most university regulations for postgraduate degrees state that there 
should be signed declaration at or near the start of a thesis (Ch 28), 
affirming that, unless otherwise stated:
■
■the candidate is the sole author of the thesis;
■
■all references cited have been consulted by the candidate;
■
■all the work in the thesis has been done by the candidate;
■
■the work has not been previously accepted for a higher degree.
If the thesis is based upon joint research (sometimes the case in 
the sciences), it is also expected that the nature and extent of the 
candidate’s individual contribution is defined.
i
●
●Demonstrable ownership. Partly due to its specialised nature, 
research degree work is vulnerable to plagiarism and the possibility 
of unacknowledged outside help. A thesis is not written under 
exam conditions, and others may have helped you significantly. 
Further, the examination committee may not always know in detail 
about other work carried out in your field and be unable to judge 
unerringly whether ideas or data have been copied from others. For 
this reason, you will be asked to write and sign a declaration (Ch 30) 
and be expected to follow the academic conventions of citation and 
referencing to acknowledge the influence of other authors (Ch 20). 
In part, the purpose of the viva voce exam (Ch 31) is to allow you to 
demonstrate that you understand and can explain your thesis as an 
indication that it was indeed your own labour.
There is also a technical requirement to submit your thesis in the 
expected format and binding (Ch 30) – it might have to be resubmitted 
if the examination committee decides that it fails to meet these 
conventions.
Joining the academic community
As you progress in your postgraduate studies, you will sense that you 
are gradually becoming a part of an academic community. People will 
be interested in your work and thoughts. They may wish to collaborate, 
to ask for your help or to debate issues with you. Some may influence 
your thoughts hugely. Some will become life-long friends.
24 
Introduction
However, as with any other community or society, becoming integrated 
is a two-way process. You will need to reach out in similar ways to your 
peers, perceived superiors and external authorities. Your initial shyness 
will soon disappear when you realise that your fellow students probably 
have the same apprehensive feelings as yourself and that even crusty 
old professors have a soft human side (sometimes).
One important aspect of postgraduate study is that it offers you a 
‘taster’ of what it might be like to follow an academic career. For 
example, it will allow you the chance to find out whether you might 
be suited to university-level teaching (Ch 13). It might also provide a 
springboard to launch a professional research career.
Ideas for linking with other researchers
■
■Show an interest. Ask about their work and read up a little about it 
if necessary.
■
■Find out others’ views. Ask what they think about the main issues 
in your own work.
■
■Share your own views. Be willing to reveal your own thoughts and/
or results.
■
■Read others’ papers. Become informed about their interests and 
ideas.
■
■Attend seminars and ask questions. Find links to your own studies.
■
■Research alongside others when you can. You might pick up 
useful tips.
■
■Spend time in the common-room. Take part in the intellectual and 
not so intellectual banter.
■
■Attend social events. Get to know your colleagues’ personalities.
■
■Email or write to the authorities in your subject. Seek out their 
views.
■
■Attend training programmes. See if you can learn from the 
approach others are taking.
■
■Attend conferences. Present your own work; meet other like-
minded people.
■
■Explore opportunities for collaboration. Try to work with others 
and use their facilities.
■
■Create a research blog or social media site. This might help you 
to make and maintain contacts.
✔
2  Principles of postgraduateness 
25
As a novice member of an academic community, you will be able to 
observe other academics in action; gain a sense of how competitive 
the academic life can be; and see from the inside how an academic 
department actually works. If it does seem to suit you, then you can 
try to enter academia, either directly or, more likely, by applying for 
a postdoctoral position (Ch 33). On other hand, you may decide that 
working in a university, research institute or the development section of 
a company is not for you. If this is the case, you can make a break and 
move on elsewhere after the postgraduate study period.
Action points
2.1  Construct realistic aims for your research and discuss 
these with your supervisor. This may indeed be a requirement 
of your university’s progress monitoring system or a required 
aspect of a research proposal. Such research aims, however, 
should always be flexible. They should be modified in the light of 
experience. They need to become more realistic and achievable 
the further into your studies you go. 
2.2  Review your university’s requirements for achieving a 
postgraduate research degree. Do this at the outset. Do not be 
under any illusions about what you need to accomplish. 
2.3  Try to become more aware of your personality traits. How 
might these affect your research progress? Often, personality tests 
are offered as part of the postgraduate training programme, but 
they are also available online or via your careers centre. The results 
should not be considered definitive, but they may give cause for 
reflection.
What is a post-doc?
Post-doctoral (post-doc) positions occupy a place between a PhD 
studentship and a lectureship (or full-time research post). They are 
generally untenured, and based on a three-year salaried contract. 
Post-doc positions offer a chance to use or extend your expertise, 
build a publication base and make new contacts. They are often 
regarded a staging post on the way to a research or lecturing career.
✔
Getting started
3  Identifying and framing research questions 
29
How to set targets and 
formulate hypotheses
Identifying and framing 
research questions
3
Having a level-headed view of how you will approach your PhD 
research is an essential starting point. This involves framing the 
research questions or hypotheses you will seek to answer. Setting 
provisional goals and milestones is an important way to get your 
studies off to a good start even though your ideas and plans will be 
tested and refined as time goes on.
Key topics
➔
➔Generating ideas
➔
➔Exploring the literature
➔
➔Narrowing your options
➔
➔Creating goals and framing research questions
➔
➔Setting up explanations and hypotheses to test
Depending on the type of research project you have signed up for 
(Ch 1), you will have different levels of decision to make regarding the 
direction of your work. If the project area is relatively open, you will 
self-evidently have a relatively high freedom to select a precise topic 
and targets. If the project area is well defined, your choices will be 
narrower, but there will still be some need to select between options 
and decide upon an initial approach to the study.
Both are reasons why some universities or departments ask their 
postgraduate students to complete a research proposal at an early 
stage, so that the scoping part of the research process is well 
documented and can be checked by the relevant progress monitoring 
group. This requirement recognises the importance of having a strong 
starting point and clear aims right from the beginning, and also allows 
30 
Getting started
such matters as ethics approval to be monitored. The structure and 
content of a formal proposal is examined in Chapter 4.
Generating ideas
Generating new ideas for research requires a certain amount of relevant 
knowledge. You will therefore need to carry out some background 
reading. This might build on knowledge from your undergraduate days or 
the studies you did when selecting your research position (Ch 1). It may 
require a completely new literature search or one that is in greater depth, 
perhaps requiring assistance from a subject librarian (Ch 7). Chapter 8 
provides tips for reading and analysing the research literature.
This phase of your project can consume valuable time. While surveying 
the literature you should maintain a balance between a focused 
consideration of options and the width and depth of your reading. 
Because of the appeal of the topic, you may find yourself easily 
distracted into areas of marginal value. Take a note of this interesting 
material, but move on swiftly at this stage. Most topics are multi-faceted 
and there is often the temptation to try to address too many issues. You 
may have to be selective in narrowing down the research topic.
Importance of making the right choices for your 
research
Finding suitable research questions to ask and the best methods 
to answer them. Your task is therefore to find a path between 
straightforward research with a high chance of obtaining useful results 
and complex or difficult research with a high ‘tariff’ for its uncertain 
outcomes.
✔
Getting to grips with jargon and difficult ideas
Having to comprehend the terminology and complex concepts of a 
new topic can initially result in a hazy understanding of the foundations 
of your work and, hence, difficulty in framing suitable questions. One 
way around this is to go back to basics, possibly by reading a general 
textbook of the area. You may also wish to create a personal glossary 
of terms to help you learn the specialised terms involved.
✔
3  Identifying and framing research questions 
31
Exploring the literature
Your initial literature trawl might involve:
●
●An analysis of up-to-date reviews of your subject area. The aim 
would be to explore the current state of knowledge, seek out 
potentially productive research directions and find areas with 
unanswered questions.
●
●A thorough read of key papers. These might be identified with the 
help of your supervisor and might indeed have been mentioned 
in a grant application, if relevant. Otherwise, you may find them 
highlighted in subject reviews. You should read these sources for 
clues about evidence, methods and suggestions for future work, 
either written up in the paper, or that arise from your own thoughts 
while reading about the subject.
●
●Reading relevant publications from your supervisor’s portfolio. This 
will not only give you an appreciation of his or her work in the area, 
but may also provide you with useful sources for further reading.
●
●A study of the research methods used in your area. In the sciences 
this might be highly technical in nature, while in the non-sciences, 
it might involve broad-brush approaches to the topic. You should 
be aware of the possibility of using methods from one subject or 
discipline in another, as these cross-disciplinary lines of enquiry 
can often be very productive. This is a reason for consulting a wide 
range of sources.
A brainstorm (Ch 9) could be a good way of encapsulating the main 
themes on a single sheet of paper, allowing you to see connections 
and themes in the literature at a glance. 
In the light of your early reading, and after thinking through the options, 
you should construct a short-list of ideas to discuss with your allocated 
supervisor or, in some cases, a potential supervisor. Ahead of time, you 
should consider the pros and cons of each so you are in a position to 
debate the viability of each choice.
Narrowing your options
One way of narrowing your research options is to try to answer the 
following questions:
32 
Getting started
●
●What really interests me? A topic that holds your attention and 
motivates you will keep you going through any tough patches. 
Learning for learning’s sake simply because a subject appeals to 
you is a noble aim in itself and one that guides much research 
effort. The answer to what attracts you lies somewhere in your 
personality and in the way in which past lecturers or readings 
have fired your interest. However, you should be aware that 
a superficial appeal may pale when you have to deal with the 
complexity at the heart of some topics when these are studied at 
doctoral level.
●
●What do others view as the unanswered research questions? 
These may have been signposted in up-to-date textbooks and 
in the discussion/conclusions sections of recent publications. 
Working on one of these areas will ensure your work is relevant and 
‘newsworthy’, but these questions will probably be unanswered for a 
reason – they are probably difficult to solve.
●
●What am I equipped to do? This question refers both to your 
personal abilities and to the availability of equipment and other 
resources. For example, you may not wish to tackle a topic that 
requires advanced mathematics if this is not your forte; on the other 
hand, you might be able to capitalise on the availability nearby of a 
new scientific instrument that will allow you to gain interesting and 
novel results very quickly.
●
●What is the competition? Trying to beat the challenge of another 
research group can provide great motivation, although being sucked 
into someone else’s battle (perhaps on your supervisor’s behalf) 
might not serve you well. Not all areas are highly competitive, but 
joining one is a high-risk strategy because it could mean you will 
be beaten in the race to get results or face fierce objections to 
your specific methods or conclusions. Conversely, competition is 
probably an indicator of the academic or economic worth of any 
outcomes that can be expected.
●
●What barriers are there to studying a specific topic? These could 
prevent you making good progress. As examples, you might need 
to obtain permissions (perhaps to study a site of special scientific 
interest); you may need to make a complex ethics committee 
submission (Ch 19); you may require to be trained in a specific 
technique; or you may require a very expensive piece of equipment. 
However, the mere fact that there are obstacles to overcome should 
not put you off and it may narrow the competition.
3  Identifying and framing research questions 
33
Creating goals and framing research questions
When moving from this ‘options appraisal’ to a goal-setting stage, the 
watch-word is ‘practicality’. There is no point in having unrealistic goals 
such as ‘solving world hunger’, even though that potential outcome 
might be driving your interest. You need to set yourself realistic targets 
for what will probably be, at best, a two-year phase of intensive 
All in the detail
In some cases, and especially in the sciences, you will be interested 
in the minutiae of methods. Bear in mind that although published 
Materials and Methods are supposed to allow a competent worker to 
repeat research (Ch 28), this is not always the case in practice. The 
text may assume readers know about certain details that could make 
a difference to the success of the technique or subtly affect results. 
There are benefits from carrying out a very simple experiment as a pilot 
to familiarise yourself with the precise methods, check that these work 
and ensure your designs for future experiments are practical. Ideally, 
this might include a copycat treatment to see whether you can obtain a 
similar result to your source.
✔
A quick read around a new subject – what should  
you be looking for?
When establishing your knowledge-base around a new research area, 
you should attempt to find out:
■
■the past authorities in the area, that is, those researchers who 
established the foundations of the topic;
■
■the major schools of thought in the area;
■
■the key research findings and relevant publications;
■
■the researchers and research groups currently active;
■
■the areas currently being worked on and any trends in focus or findings;
■
■the jargon of the subject, and what the terms mean;
■
■the research methods in use, both in the past and currently;
■
■sources of research materials and evidence;
■
■pointers to productive new areas of work.
?
34 
Getting started
research, assuming that the preliminary phases of research and writing 
up consume a normal amount of time. Part-time students are more 
likely to have to set their research topic within a longer time-span. This 
should be taken into consideration in identifying research targets that 
will endure and be achievable.
This phase involves framing a research question that you will be 
seeking to address. A generalised approach that might be adopted 
is shown in Figure 3.1. The word ‘address’ is used deliberately here 
rather than ‘answer’, because a clear-cut answer or conclusion is rarely 
possible, and, in fact, you will gain credit by considering the evidence 
from all sides of an argument or case, arriving at a clearly stated 
viewpoint, and giving reasons for adopting this position.
A primary requirement is to frame research questions so that you can 
obtain some outcome from your work that you will be able to describe and 
then discuss in your thesis. Of course, you would also like this to be of 
interest to the research community and thereby provide you with the status 
to move perhaps to your next research position or a job. Hence, a subtle 
mix of easily obtained results and more tricky outcomes is desirable.
Your research goals should be: 
●
●Detailed. They should include specifics about outcomes, as opposed 
to vague wishes or a title encompassing a diffuse area of study.
●
●Measurable. They should be quantifiable, so that you and others 
can decide that you have achieved the targets you have set. There 
should be concrete intermediate and final outcomes that will allow 
you to evaluate your progress.
●
●Realistic. They should be attainable, given the resources at your 
disposal (including personal abilities, time, equipment, availability of 
research materials, permissions).
Time as an important resource
Any student who has just completed a PhD will tell you – time is the 
one thing they wish they’d had in greater abundance. It is all too easy 
to underestimate the time it takes to achieve your research goals. 
Things nearly always proceed at a slower pace than you imagine, 
either due to unexpected delays or problems along the way. Therefore, 
always take care not to be too ambitious in your plans and leave plenty 
of time for dealing with contingencies.
✔
3  Identifying and framing research questions 
35
These research goals will lead naturally to research questions. A 
general approach to the framing of research questions might be to 
write down your goals as a series of statements that you would like 
your research to answer. An example could be ‘I would like to find out 
1. Explore the wider topic area (’observation’)
● Understand its key facts and concepts
● Form an overview of the wider area
● Decide on a specific topic of interest
● Note the unknowns, controversies, or areas 
where knowledge might advance
● Decide on a specific problem or issue
● Survey current explanations and evidence
3. Make a forecast from your explanation or 
hypothesis (’prediction’)
● What sorts of evidence could support it?
● If it is true, what follows?
● What would be feasible tests of its viability?
4. Test your explanation or hypothesis 
(’experiment’)
● Does any existing evidence conflict with your 
explanation?
● What experiments or evidence-gathering 
could you carry out to test it?
● Does this support or disprove your 
explanation?
2. Come up with your own ideas regarding the 
selected problem or issue (’theory’)
● Create your own explanation(s) of, or 
solution(s)
● Take a wide view of possible answers
● Put these into words (an important part of 
the process)
● Rule out the very unlikely
● Arrive at a tentative explanation or 
explanations (hypothesis/es)
Figure 3.1  The four-stage process of forming and testing a research 
question or hypothesis. This is a commonly accepted description of the route 
for formulating or refining a research question or hypothesis and then testing 
it. The process can be cyclical, as indicated, with the results of tests being fed 
back to the start as new observations.
36 
Getting started
whether children from lower socio-economic backgrounds are more 
or less likely to fail if they come to University’. This might lead you 
to a series of narrower research avenues. For instance, in the above 
example, you would probably need to look into definitions of socio-
economic backgrounds and set criteria for the notion of ‘failure’.
This thinking might even lead you to think of a tentative title for your 
thesis and possibly the potential titles for the different chapters within 
it. Even though you may change these at a later date, they may help to 
make the nature of your researches more concrete and outcome-led.
Setting up explanations and hypotheses to test
Science-related research
In the sciences, the research questions for PhD studies can simply be 
the hypotheses you would like to test by seeking out relevant evidence 
and comparing with the theoretical expectation. This notion fits with 
the framework of understanding described in Table 3.1. However, 
many who study the philosophy of science feel that there may be more 
human intuition in ‘real’ research than is indicated by this analysis.
Each hypothesis is normally cast as a simple statement, such as ‘the 
reason obesity reduces lifespan is because of the risk of diabetes and 
the consequent debilitating conditions’. The next stage is a statement 
along the lines of ‘if that is the case, then we would predict that. . .’ 
(for example, ‘if so, we would expect mortality assigned to specific 
diabetes-related conditions to be correlated with the weight of the 
patient’).
Nearly all science deals with the testing of small-scale hypotheses. 
Each hypothesis involves a prediction and its testing via an experiment 
(Figure 3.1). An experiment is a test under controlled conditions that 
reduces the number of changing variables (often called ‘factors’ or 
‘treatments’), ideally to a single factor of interest in the context of 
the hypothesis (Ch 24). No hypothesis can be rejected with absolute 
certainty, especially when there is variability in the results of the 
experimental test (which there nearly always is). The field of statistics 
for a large part deals with assigning probabilities to the results of 
hypothesis-testing (Ch 23).
Someone who proposes a new theory will probably become quite 
famous in their research area and will be much quoted. These people 
3  Identifying and framing research questions 
37
Table 3.1  A hierarchical view of the theory underpinning any particular 
research area. This model applies best for scientific areas of research. 
Paradigm
At the top of the hierarchy is the paradigm, a theoretical framework of understanding 
that is so successful and well-confirmed that most research in the area is carried 
out within its context. By definition, such notions are rarely challenged by the results 
of research, and, even if they were, workers in the field would require reasonably 
extensive corroboration before they would shelve the framework.
• An example of a paradigm might be: ‘Physiological systems are capable 
of being controlled via the concentrations of chemical messengers called 
‘hormones’.
Theory
Next in the hierarchy is the theory, a collection of hypotheses. This is more 
tentative in nature than a paradigm, and might be overturned if evidence justifies 
this; it is differentiated from a hypothesis by being applicable to a wider range of 
natural situations.
• An example of a theory could be that the hormone ghrelin acts to increase 
hunger in mammals by acting on the hypothalamus.
Related to a theory is the notion of a scientific law, a theoretical understanding 
that can be encapsulated in a mathematical equation. These are more prevalent 
in the physical sciences.
• A familiar example of a law might be e = mc2.
Hypothesis
The hypothesis is, in effect, the ‘unit’ of understanding. It is an explanation that 
can be tested by experiment and can essentially be found to be untrue if the 
evidence suggests so. This property of hypothesis is known as falsifiability. If 
confirmed, a hypothesis will be retained with greater confidence, but if falsified, it 
may be rejected outright or it might be modified and retested.
• An example of a hypothesis could be that the hormone abscisic acid works by 
stimulating potassium efflux from stomatal guard cells.
may become the standing ‘authorities’ of the subject – but perhaps this 
is something to aspire to in your overall research career rather than in a 
three-year research project.
Researchers who try to overturn a paradigm will meet a lot of 
resistance from the academic community (many of whom may 
have a vested interest in its continuance). Their ideas are often met 
with incredulity and it may take time and the accumulation of new 
evidence to persuade others to change their views. Such events are 
rare and understandably those whose radical views are later accepted 
are feted for their impact on a subject area. An example might be 
the concept of continental drift (later, plate tectonics), as originally 
38 
Getting started
championed by Alfred Wegener and others, which initially met great 
resistance from established geological scientists. As a PhD student, 
attempting to overturn a paradigm may not be a constructive strategy 
to adopt. 
The concept of repeatability
This is vital to the rationale of the Scientific Method. The essential 
result from an experiment should be reproducible, providing all 
aspects remain equal (not always easy). Acceptable non-consequential 
differences should be within the bounds of error predicted by statistical 
analysis. An accepted hypothesis should therefore be testable again 
and again, with the same result, except for the occasional ‘blip’ where, 
considering statistical variation, the error data suggest that there is 
finite but small (usually less than 1 in 20) chance of a different result 
(Ch 23). This predictability underpins the utility of most scientific 
disciplines.
i
Non-science research
In the non-sciences, investigative approaches in many areas are 
less rigid than within experimental methodologies. This means that 
the tactics that researchers adopt are diverse and rely very much 
on the contexts of individual studies as well as on the philosophical 
underpinning and the research objectives. In short, there is no ‘right 
way’ to conduct research in many non-scientific areas. Hence, it may 
Where do the ideas for new hypotheses come from?
This may be a question that exercises you if you are new to research. 
Generally speaking, they are said to arise from observations or the 
results of previous experiments. They normally require one or more of 
the following thought processes:
■
■analogy with other systems;
■
■recognition of a pattern;
■
■recognition of departure from a pattern;
■
■invention of new methods for research;
■
■development of a mathematical model;
■
■intuition;
■
■imagination.
?
3  Identifying and framing research questions 
39
be that there is no clear hypothesis set as a preliminary to undertaking 
the research and that the research questions may arise from the 
circumstances, for example, from dialogue with subjects.
Action points
3.1  Make contact with the relevant subject librarian in your 
university library. They may be able to assist with your initial 
research enquiries, either by showing you collections or by framing 
search queries for databases.
3.2  Identify the key paradigms and theories that underpin your 
preferred research area. In sciences, what hypotheses have been 
tested in recent research papers? Which might be important for 
your own project? In non-sciences, what philosophical approaches 
lie behind recent research publications?
3.3  Think of three goals for your research. Assess their quality 
using the three criteria given earlier in the chapter.
40 
Getting started
4
How to outline your approach 
to postgraduate study
Writing a proposal 
or research plan
Depending on individual contexts, you may be required to submit 
a thesis proposal. You should regard your proposal as much more 
than an administrative exercise; it can help you to organise your 
preliminary thoughts, plan your approach and complete your work 
on time.
Key topics
➔
➔Benefits of writing a proposal
➔
➔What will be taken into account in assessing your proposal?
➔
➔Writing your proposal
A proposal or research plan may be required before you are accepted 
for PhD study, or it may form part of the induction or progress 
monitoring scheme. Either way, the proposal is generally submitted 
before you start studying in depth or writing seriously. In some cases, 
your choice of topic may influence the selection or allocation of the 
person who will act as your supervisor.
This proposal or plan will outline the scope and methods of the 
research you intend to carry out and, in some cases, will indicate 
how you plan to organise your writing. Depending on the practices in 
your institution, your proposal will be considered by either a Research 
Committee or by your potential supervisor. You may be offered 
feedback and advice on how to proceed. Once approval is given for 
your proposal, you will be given the formal go-ahead to proceed with 
your studies under the guidance of your supervisor.
4  Writing a proposal or research plan 
41
Benefits of writing a proposal
The discipline of composing a proposal is a valuable exercise and you 
should approach this task in a positive frame of mind. The benefits 
include:
●
●ensuring your research has aims and objectives that are achievable 
in the time allocated;
●
●compelling you to read and review some of the relevant background 
material to orientate your thoughts;
●
●checking that you have a realistic notion of the research methods 
you could and should use;
●
●making sure you think about resources you may require at an early 
stage;
●
●ensuring that resources whether in terms of material or access to 
information will be reliably and realistically available to support your 
research;
●
●verifying that you have considered safety and ethical issues relating 
to your research;
●
●assisting you to create an outline structure for your dissertation or 
report;
●
●helping you to create a viable timetable for your work; 
●
●matching your interests and needs to an appropriate supervisor 
(where relevant).
In some cases, acceptance of the research proposal may be a 
condition of being admitted to a course of doctoral study, especially 
where the applicant is self-funding or where competition for research 
places is significant. You may, for example, have nurtured an interest 
in a topic within your field where the area and method of study seem 
Administrative uses for research proposals
The proposal document may be used:
■
■to help allocate a supervisor for your research (Ch 10);
■
■to evaluate safety needs for your research;
■
■to consider ethical dimensions of your research (Ch 19);
■
■as a reference point for considering your later progress (Ch 16).
i
42 
Getting started
clear to you. Nevertheless, it is necessary to undertake this scoping 
exercise so others can ensure that what you seek to do is viable in 
practical terms as well as being profound enough for study at doctoral 
level.
What will be taken into account in assessing 
your proposal?
The person or group reading your proposal will be considering it from 
several viewpoints. They would expect you to be able to answer ‘yes’ 
to the questions in the checklist below: 
❏
❏Have you carried out appropriate background reading?
❏
❏Do you have an up-to-date and accurate view of the research field?
❏
❏Have you outlined the focus of your studies in sufficient detail? (In 
some disciplines, this means the hypothesis you intend to test.)
❏
❏Is the scope of your proposed study realistic in the time allocated?
❏
❏Is your proposed research study sufficiently original?
❏
❏Is your proposed research sufficiently challenging?
❏
❏Will the research allow you to demonstrate your academic ability?
❏
❏Will the research give you the opportunity to develop and refine your 
skills?
❏
❏Are the proposed methods appropriate and are you aware of their 
limitations?
❏
❏Are you likely to gain access to all the resources you need?
❏
❏Have you considered the cost implications that uniquely apply to this 
research?
❏
❏Are you planning to deal with safety and ethical issues 
appropriately?
❏
❏Is the proposed structure of your dissertation or project and the 
underlying research evident?
❏
❏Will your proposed dissertation and the underlying scholarship meet 
the requirements of the department or university regulations?
❏
❏Is the project likely to make a contribution to knowledge in your field?
Finally, and in summary:
❏
❏Are your project and the resulting thesis likely to meet the required 
standard?
4  Writing a proposal or research plan 
43
A key element that will be assessed is the research question, ‘core 
hypothesis’ or main idea underlying your project (Ch 3), so you should 
try to express this clearly.
Topics that will be looked on favourably are those that are novel, take 
an unusual perspective on a research area, and are relevant within the 
research field as it stands at the time of writing. A mistake commonly 
made is to try to cover too ‘large’ a problem or too wide an area of 
discussion, rather than one capable of adequate analysis given the 
resources likely to be at hand.
Writing your proposal
In many cases, an official form may be provided for your thesis 
or project proposal. This will normally include some or all of the 
components shown in Table 4.1, so that the person or committee 
evaluating your proposal can answer the questions noted in the 
previous section. Where no official form is provided, then using 
selected items in the ‘Component’ column in Table 4.1 will provide a 
framework for creating your own research proposal document. 
Arriving at a position to write a proposal will require that you carry 
out an appropriate amount of background reading (Chs 3 and 8). At 
an early stage, try to arrange an appointment with a staff member 
for a brief discussion about possible directions. If you have been 
allocated a supervisor, then consult them; if not, think about who 
you would like to be a supervisor and ask them. Prior to this you 
could discuss your proposal informally with others to ‘rehearse’ 
points for discussion so that you can identify weaknesses in logic in 
your plan.
Choosing a title
The point at which you write your proposal may be the first time you 
have concrete thoughts about your title. Consider adopting a two-part 
title – an attention-grabbing statement, followed by a colon or a dash 
and a secondary title that defines the content more closely. Note that 
the title given at the proposal stage should be seen as provisional, for 
the nature of the study and the outcomes may dictate a change at the 
end of the process.
✔
44 
Getting started
Table 4.1  Typical components of a thesis or project proposal. The choice of 
elements used will depend on the discipline and level of study.
Component
Content and aspects to consider
Personal details
Preferred name and contact details
Details of your degree course or 
programme
There may be subtle differences according 
to your precise degree
Proposed title (it may alter as the 
work evolves)
This should be relatively short; a two-part 
title style can be useful
Description of the subject area/
Summary/Background/Brief review/
Statement of the problem or issue 
to be addressed/Research question
A brief outline that provides context such 
as: a synopsis of past work; a description 
of the ‘gap’ to be filled or new area to be 
explored; a summary of current ideas and, 
where relevant, hypothesis/hypotheses
Aim of research
General description of the overall purpose; 
a statement of intent
Objectives
Listing of specific outcomes you expect to 
fulfil in order to achieve the aim
Literature to be examined
The sources you intend to consult
Research methods or critical 
approach
How you propose to carry out your 
investigation
Preliminary bibliography
Details (in appropriate format) of the key 
sources you have already consulted 
(Special) resources required
Information sources, samples, instruments, 
people (subjects), and other requirements
Outline plan of the dissertation or 
project report
For example, the likely section or chapter 
headings and subheadings
Indication of whether discussions 
have already been held with a 
nominated supervisor/indication of 
a potential supervisor
Valid only in cases where there is an 
element of choice of supervisor
Indication of whether discussions 
have already been held with the 
programme or course director in 
case of a project report
Valid only in cases where this is an 
administrative requirement
Names of possible supervisors
Your chance to influence this aspect, where 
relevant
Timetable/plan
A realistic breakdown of the stages of your 
dissertation, ideally with milestones
Statement or declaration that you 
understand and will comply with 
safety and/or ethical rules
The committee’s guarantee that you have 
considered these; details may be required 
in certain cases (see Ch 19)
4  Writing a proposal or research plan 
45
Example of refining a subject area
Where the area of study is ‘open’, you may need to consider various 
aspects of a potential research area before refining this to a more 
specific topic. Let’s say you are interested in bicameral systems of 
government. Clearly you cannot expect to write a PhD thesis on this 
topic in its generality. Suppose you had been enthused by a past 
lecturer (a potential supervisor?) who talked about the checks and 
balances that arise from having two chambers of government. The 
issue has become more topical in recent times and your interest 
in contrasting the idea of an elected second chamber with one 
that is dependent on patronage and selection seems to resonate 
with proposals to reform the UK House of Lords. You feel that the 
debate has not covered some implications arising from these reform 
proposals. Potential areas for scrutiny might include:
■
■examining the current composition of the House of Lords and the 
levels of participation and contribution to the governmental process 
made by life and hereditary peers respectively;
■
■contrasting these with similar inputs by elected Members of the 
Commons;
■
■considering how peers might be elected and what period of service 
might apply;
■
■reviewing the pros and cons of party-political affiliations in the 
second chamber; 
■
■evaluating an electoral college approach to composition of a second 
chamber;
■
■appraising the potential powers of a second elected chamber and 
the role that such a chamber might fulfil in a modern political system 
and the legislative process in particular;
■
■exploring the need for and implications of ensuring checks and 
balances on the powers of both Houses.
These issues collectively might become the framework of a thesis 
project. However, an alternative approach might mean that the thesis 
would focus on only one or two of these aspects. Scoping potential 
issues in this way is a way of helping to define your topic, in this case, 
within an appraisal of election rather than selection as a means of 
creating a bicameral system. This might translate into a provisional 
thesis title such as: ‘Representative Second Chambers: the United 
Kingdom House of Lords as a case study.’
✔
46 
Getting started
Present your proposal neatly. It should be word-processed and should 
stick very closely to any recommended word limits. Regardless of any 
length constraints, try to make your proposal succinct and to the point. 
There will be ample time to expand your thoughts when writing the real 
dissertation or project report. The proposal committee will be trying to 
arrive at a quick decision and this will be made easier if your proposal 
is ‘short and sweet’.
The language in your proposal should be clear to the non-specialist, 
but must include appropriate terminology to show that you understand 
key concepts and jargon. Set yourself realistic aims and objectives, 
bearing in mind the need for originality in your work. The group 
considering your proposal will be aware that a major reason for 
students having problems with dissertations and project choices is that 
they were over-ambitious at the start. 
Try not to prepare your proposal in a rush. If possible, write out a 
near-final draft and leave it for a few days before coming back to it 
again with a critical mind, then make suitable modifications before your 
final submission.
The difference between aims and objectives or 
goals
A statement of both ‘aims’ and ‘objectives’ for your research may be 
required in your proposal form – and the distinction between these can 
be confusing. Widely accepted definitions generally suggest that aims 
are statements of intent or purpose that are broad in nature, and hence 
defined in general terms perhaps relating to an overall outcome, while 
objectives (goals) are outlined in more specific terms and tend to relate 
to individual, achievable outcomes that are required to fulfil the ultimate 
aim. For example, the aim of a dissertation might be to ‘summarise 
viewpoints within a particular research field’ while an objective might 
be to ‘compare the various research methods in use to measure a 
particular variable’. Ideally objectives will state ‘what’, ‘how’, ‘where’ 
and ‘when’ (as appropriate).
i
4  Writing a proposal or research plan 
47
Action points
4.1  Imagine you are assessing your own proposal. Having 
completed a draft, answer all the questions in the checklist 
above for any answers that might be problematic, go back to the 
proposal and see if you could improve on it, or provide evidence to 
back up your case.
4.2  List potential thesis or project report titles. Consult other 
theses and project reports completed recently to gain a feel for the 
modern style in your discipline. Write down a few options for your 
own work and ask your supervisor or fellow students what they 
think of them.
4.3  Create a detailed timetable for your research and writing. 
Consult Chapter 6 for advice on managing time and remember 
to factor in some slippage time. Include suitable milestones; for 
example, ‘finish first draft’ (see Table 1.1).
Key PhD research
skills
5  Developing as a researcher 
51
Appraising your skills 
and gaining proficiency
Developing as a researcher
5
The UK Research Councils have been active in creating an 
organisation, Vitae, charged with supporting postgraduate research 
students in their personal development. Vitae’s online resource 
will help you to outline skills of potential relevance and help you to 
audit your strengths and weaknesses; in tandem with the training 
programmes on offer at your own university (or department), you can 
tailor and fulfil a plan for your own training needs.
Key topics
➔
➔Relevant personal skills for research
➔
➔Planning your development as a researcher
➔
➔Taking advantage of training opportunities
➔
➔Summarising your development
In the past, PhD researchers had a somewhat patchy experience in 
gaining skills for personal and career development. Traditionally, PhD 
training tended to depend on the organisation of department-hosted 
events such as seminars, and the willingness of their supervisor to 
help students develop their skill-set. This was recognised as a problem 
by the UK Research Councils, and, as a result, universities were 
provided with earmarked resources to tackle this issue. The Research 
Councils also supported the creation of an organisation to support 
personal development, Vitae, whose resources can be used to put your 
institution’s training in a personal context.
Vitae aims to ‘realise the potential of researchers’ by supporting 
the personal, professional and career development of doctoral 
researchers and research staff in higher education institutions and 
research institutes. It is managed by CRAC, the Careers Research 
52 
Key PhD research skills
and Advisory Centre. Vitae’s comprehensive resources are available at 
www.vitae.ac.uk/researchers. Some of the material in this chapter 
borrows from their approach.
One advantage of creating a single source of generic web-based 
information is that all postgraduate students can access this kind of 
support no matter how big or small their institution or the size of a 
postgraduate’s research department. 
UK Research Councils
Currently (2013), there are seven Research Councils in the UK:
■
■the Arts and Humanities Research Council;
■
■the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council;
■
■the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council;
■
■the Economic and Social Research Council;
■
■the Medical Research Council;
■
■the Natural Environment Research Council;
■
■the Science and Technology Facilities Council.
These research councils provide funding directly to UK universities and 
research organisations.
i
Relevant personal skills for research
When embarking on a PhD research project, you will be well aware 
of the need to carry out certain new activities and to perform them to 
the required standard. You will probably be keen to develop and add 
to the skills acquired during your undergraduate days. By engaging 
with the reflection that this book and the Vitae site invites, you will be 
preparing for the future and actively taking responsibility for optimising 
your skill-set in ways that may never be available to you again in your 
professional life.
Any effort to improve your skills should start from a ‘skills audit’. One 
basic way of thinking about the necessary skills is to divide them into 
‘hard’ and ‘soft’ skills:
●
●Hard research skills. These are essential for the progress of your 
research, and include: 
5  Developing as a researcher 
53
–– specific technical skills (for example, the use of software or 
instruments required in your work);
–– methods (for example, analytical lab procedures, survey 
approaches or design of questionnaires);
–– safety training (often required before you can use, for example, 
radioactive or carcinogenic substances or work unsupervised in a 
laboratory);
–– ethics training (may be required for research involving patients or 
third-party interviews). 
These skills tend to be project- and institution-specific and generally 
require that you follow a defined procedure or programme relevant 
to your place of study (that is, your research group, department or 
university).
●
●Soft research skills. These also benefit your research, but there is 
more scope for a variety of approaches. Examples include:
–– literature searching;
–– writing;
–– making presentations;
–– teaching;
–– teamwork.
In general, many of these softer skills will be transferable to 
employment.
The essential skill of learning
As a postgraduate, you will be expected to take responsibility for your 
studies with limited support from those around you. A prescription 
of how and when to do things that you may have experienced as an 
undergraduate will be absent. Therefore, how you research, assimilate, 
analyse, synthesise and retain large amounts of information will be 
down to you and how you learn best. If the introspection required to 
understand these ‘learning preferences’ is novel to you, it is essential 
that you take some time to audit these characteristics so that you 
can work to your strengths while reflecting on and developing your 
less well-developed traits. A recommended online approach to this is 
available at www.vark-learn.com. This includes a simple questionnaire 
that is used to suggest a personal learning preference (visual, aural, 
read-write, kinesthetic, or multimodal).
i
54 
Key PhD research skills
The Vitae ‘Researcher Development Statement’ (RDS; Careers 
Research and Advisory Centre, 2010) is a detailed resource which 
provides postgraduate researchers with a framework for progress. This 
covers a blend of knowledge, skills, abilities, behaviours and attitudes. 
It was derived from the Joint Skill Statement of the UK Research 
Councils (UK Research Councils, 2001). The RDS divides researchers’ 
development needs into four ‘domains’:
1	 Knowledge and intellectual abilities – the knowledge, intellectual 
abilities and techniques to do research.
2	 Personal effectiveness – the personal qualities and approach 
required to be an effective researcher.
3	 Research governance and organisation – the knowledge of the 
standards, requirements and professionalism to do research.
4	 Engagement, influence and impact – the knowledge and skills to 
work with others and ensure the wider impact of research.
Table 5.1 indicates the sorts of abilities and skills relevant to each of 
the Vitae domains.
Being aware of the potential skills you might require is the first part of a 
skills audit. The next is to select and prioritise those abilities particularly 
relevant to your personality and research area that you might want to 
develop. Finally, you will need to find both the opportunity and time to 
undergo the training available to you.
Planning your development as a researcher
The Vitae website’s Professional Development Planner (PDP) resource 
allows you to take each researcher development sub-domain 
and aspect forward, creating your own targets with the aid of a 
downloadable spreadsheet planner. For each of the aspects, you are 
presented with descriptions of three to five phases of development 
which you can use to self-assess your current position and set future 
targets (see Figure 5.1 for an example). You are asked to assess or 
complete the following:
●
●current phase;
●
●target phase;
●
●evidence to support your current phase;
5  Developing as a researcher 
55
●
●how you will achieve your objectives;
●
●how you will measure it;
●
●target dates;
●
●additional comments.
As a novice researcher you may find the descriptions of the higher 
phases in the Vitae planner to be very demanding – but you would 
not necessarily be expected to reach these levels of achievement as 
a research student – these phases represent professional goals for 
Table 5.1  Selected knowledge and intellectual abilities within the four 
domains of the Vitae Researcher Development Statement (RDS). The 
three sub-domains for each domain A–D are provided, but only selected 
(and sometimes paraphrased) aspects of each sub-domain are included. The 
full statement with its division into domains and sub-domains is available at 
http://www.vitae.ac.uk/CMS/files/upload/Researcher%20development%20
statement.pdf (accessed 23 July 2012).
A. Knowledge and intellectual abilities
1	 Knowledge base: subject knowledge; theory and application of techniques; 
information literacy; academic literacy
2	 Cognitive abilities: analysis; synthesis; critical thinking; problem-solving
3	 Creativity: insight; innovation; construction of arguments
B. Personal effectiveness:
1	 Personal qualities: enthusiasm, perseverance; integrity; willingness to reflect
2	 Self-management: preparation; prioritisation; time management; work–life 
balance
3	 Professional and career development: career management; responsiveness to 
opportunities; networking
C. Research governance and organisation
1	 Professional conduct: health and safety; ethics; awareness of intellectual 
property and copyright issues; attribution of ideas
2	 Research management: research strategy; project planning; risk management
3	 Finance, funding and resources: financial management; infrastructure and 
resources
D. Engagement, influence and impact
1	 Working with others: team-working; collaboration; leadership; equality and 
diversity awareness
2	 Communication and dissemination: methods and media for communication; 
publication
3	 Engagement and impact: teaching; public engagement; enterprise
56 
Key PhD research skills
experienced research workers, and even then, perhaps at quite an 
advanced point in their career.
Identifying a set of targets for personal development is one thing, but 
finding the means and time to achieve them is a different challenge. 
In some cases, the ‘means’ will come first, for example, if you spot 
a suitable training event in your university’s postgraduate training 
scheme. It is then a question of timetabling other activities around 
this. In other cases, you will need to create both the time and the 
opportunity yourself. An example for a new postgraduate might be 
when improving your ability to search for relevant literature, by making 
an appointment to meet the relevant university subject librarian.
As a guide, Vitae suggests you might spend about a day a month on 
training, throughout your career in research. It is likely that the progress 
monitoring system at your university (Ch 16) will require you to audit 
your skills, attend training events and record what you have done. 
Your university or department may provide their own guidelines for 
participation (which should take precedence).
As you progress through your studies, you will probably identify 
new skills to develop or see the need to refine existing ones. 
Therefore it is important to reappraise your skills from time to 
time. This may be encouraged either via your department’s 
progress monitoring scheme or as part of the postgraduate training 
scheme. A good supervisor will also keep you aware of needs and 
opportunities.
Figure 5.1  Screenshot taken from the downloadable Vitae Professional 
Development Planner for postgraduate researchers. This shows the 
five phases associated with the aspect ‘Research methods – practical 
application’ of the sub-domain ‘Knowledge base’ within the domain of 
‘Knowledge and intellectual abilities’ (see also Table 5.1). Note that in this 
case phases four and five are joint, covering a relatively wide spectrum of 
status. 
5  Developing as a researcher 
57
Taking advantage of training opportunities
A typical training scheme will contain a mix of general and specific 
presentations or workshops. Sometimes, as with learning to use 
software, the latter will involve hands-on training. The scheme will 
probably be introduced to you at an induction event, and the programme 
will probably be available online. A typical training programme will be 
conducted by a mix of internal and external presenters.
As noted above, institutional training scheme events are not the only 
way in which you can further your development. Other opportunities 
include:
●
●attending conferences, where you can meet other researchers, 
present interim findings and hear about the findings or views of 
others;
●
●making visits to other academics or research groups to discuss 
matters of mutual interest;
●
●carrying out specific research objectives in another location (for 
example, using a specific research instrument or facility; visiting an 
site of special scientific interest);
●
●reading books and manuals.
How should I plan my training?
The Vitae website page ‘Planning your training’ (Careers Research and 
Advisory Centre, 2012, http://www.vitae.ac.uk/researchers/1607/
Planning-your-training.html [accessed 23 July 2012]) suggests that 
you ask yourself the following questions when prioritising training: 
■
■By what date do I need to have received this training?
■
■Is it something that I really need to do as quickly as possible to start 
my research (e.g. learn about databases to be able to store data) or 
is it something that I need for a particular purpose and that can be 
scheduled appropriately (e.g. Viva training)?
■
■When is this training available?
■
■How much time do I want to allocate each week/month to training?
■
■What are my other time commitments?
■
■How can I fit my training plan around my research, work and 
personal obligations?
?
58 
Key PhD research skills
Most of these openings should be discussed with your supervisor 
before proceeding. Some supervisors are particularly wary of contact 
with other research groups before research themes or results are 
confirmed or published.
Typical event titles from a doctoral workshop 
programme 
These examples have been adapted from the University of Dundee’s 
Organisational and Professional Development Programme for 2012 
(http://www.dundee.ac.uk/media/dundeewebsite/opd/documents/
OPD%20brochure%20WEB.pdf) where the target group is highlighted 
as ‘PhD students’ or ‘All’:
■
■Communicating science to non-specialists;
■
■Communicating through writing – CVs, covering letters and 
applications;
■
■Designing and delivering academic posters – taking a professional 
approach;
■
■Developing as a researcher – launching your PhD (Year 1);
■
■Developing as a researcher – making progress in your PhD 
(Year 2);
■
■Developing as a researcher – the end is in sight (final year);
■
■Enhancing interview skills – a practical approach;
■
■Exploring advanced Excel – functions, tricks and short-cuts;
■
■Exploring advanced Word – functions, tricks and short-cuts;
■
■Introducing research statistics – SPSS and SIGMASTAT;
■
■Introducing research statistics – using SPSS;
■
■Learning to use Endnote – effective electronic referencing;
■
■Manipulating digital images – understanding Photoshop;
■
■Networking effectively – application of social networking tools for 
professional purposes;
■
■Reading at speed – becoming a more efficient reader;
■
■Summarising your research for the non-specialist – the layperson’s 
abstract;
■
■Understanding intellectual property and commercialisation;
■
■Using mind-mapping effectively – principles and tools;
■
■Writing and publishing your research.
i
5  Developing as a researcher 
59
It is important to attend training events in a positive frame of mind – so 
that you and others attending will maximise the benefits. For instance, 
some information or advice that seems obvious to you may not be at 
all so to someone from a different culture or background. They might 
gain from receiving your wisdom in positive discussion. You may 
note that ‘helping others’ is part of several sub-domains in the Vitae 
Research Development Statement.
There may be issues with certain supervisors regarding what they 
regard as over-attendance at training events. They may feel that you 
should be spending as much time as possible at your desk or bench. 
However, you should resist pressure in this direction if you believe you 
will gain personally from attendance.
Benefits of attending training events
As well as the chance to upgrade your skills, training events are an 
opportunity to get out of your normal working environment and meet 
other postgraduates. The experience of participating in a group often 
adds value to your learning. There is a chance to make new social 
contacts and you may be able to work together to solve each other’s 
personal and research problems. Sometimes you will meet others 
whose questions and ideas spark new lines of study for you.
✔
What if you have timetabling issues?
You may run into problems if the timetabling of events clashes with 
other responsibilities. In that case, seek advice about alternative 
ways to pick up the material – there may be handouts, PowerPoint 
presentations and other materials you can use.
✔
Summarising your development
The work you put in to personal or professional development planning 
will stand you in good stead when taking part in progress monitoring 
meetings and later when applying for a job or new research position. 
It will certainly assist with the vocabulary required to describe your 
attributes. It will also help you to indicate strengths, weaknesses and 
areas for development, both when writing applications and orally during 
discussions or interviews.
60 
Key PhD research skills
There will come a time when you need to summarise your skills and 
attributes via a curriculum vitae (CV) and perhaps in an application 
letter or statement regarding a specific post you are applying for. 
The structure and contents of a postgraduate CV are discussed in 
Chapter 33. Meantime, the Vitae Professional Development Planner is 
recommended as an excellent way of noting your progress and current 
status if no other personal development planning scheme is promoted 
at your institution. 
Action points
5.1  Visit and bookmark the Vitae website 
(http://www.vitae.ac.uk). Download the Professional Development 
Planner spreadsheet and conduct a personal skills audit.
5.2  Visit and bookmark the webpage for your University’s 
postgraduate training unit. Discuss events you may wish to 
attend with your supervisor. Be prepared to explain why each will 
be useful both to you and to your research project.
5.3  Take time to think about the CV details you might wish 
to have by the end of your postgraduate degree. This will help 
you to direct your personal development. Desirable aspects may 
depend on the jobs you might be applying for. If you are unsure 
about this, it might be a good idea to meet with a Careers Service 
advisor to discuss possible directions. The earlier you feel able do 
this, the better.
6  Planning and time management 
61
How to complete your research 
and write-up on time
Planning and time 
management
6
Managing your time effectively is an important key to completing a 
PhD. This chapter provides ideas for organising your activities with 
tips to help you to maintain focus on the key tasks in the research 
and writing processes.
Key topics
➔
➔Diaries, timetables and planners
➔
➔Listing and prioritising
➔
➔Routines and good work habits
➔
➔What to do if you can’t get started on a task or can’t complete it
➔
➔The value of unstructured time
Successful people tend to have the ability to focus on the right tasks 
at the right time, the capacity to work quickly to meet their targets, and 
the knack of seeing each job through to a conclusion. In short, they 
possess good time-management skills.
As a PhD student, you will need to balance the time you devote to 
your research, family, paid work and social activities. To a great extent 
doctoral students are expected to exercise considerable autonomy 
in conducting their research, hence excellent time management is 
essential. This is an important professional skill that is implied by 
possession of a postgraduate degree (Ch 5). While you will probably 
have more freedom over these choices than many others, making 
the necessary decisions about how to use your time can still be 
a challenge. Table 6.1 illustrates why good time management is 
especially important at this level.
62 
Key PhD research skills
Time management is a skill that can be developed like any other. 
Relatively simple routines and tips can help you improve your 
organisation, prioritisation and time-keeping. Weigh up the following 
ideas and try to adopt those most suited to your needs and personality. 
Some may be familiar, but there are always benefits from having a fresh 
look at your work patterns.
Table 6.1  Some of the ways in which PhD students demonstrate poor time 
management. These are examples of work patterns that don’t work well for 
lengthy projects and possible solutions.
1	 Working long hours for an extended period. This will probably be the result 
of being over-ambitious or disorganised. The results can be catastrophic: 
complete breakdown is not unknown. Even if you are driven by competition or 
a supervisor with very high expectations you must work out what is healthily 
feasible within the limits of your project and ‘having a life’.
2	 Last-minute completion. Underestimating the amount of work or failing 
to focus from the start are two reasons for having to rush at the end. The 
solution is to be organised, focused and to work at an even, well-judged pace 
throughout.
3	 Being over-confident. This can lead to an underestimation of the difficulty or 
amount of time required to complete a task. The solution is to have a realistic 
view of your own abilities and what you want to do. This will come from 
experience, asking others (including your supervisor) what is involved and 
studying the task in more detail. 
4	 Being a perfectionist. This is a dangerous problem because, on the one 
hand, carrying out your work to the best of your ability is a hallmark of good 
postgraduate research. On the other hand, it can lead to a lack of progress as 
you stall or repeat the same task again and again, looking for the best possible 
information or result. Sometimes it is better to accept work that is not ideal so 
you can move on to other tasks.
5	 Not being focused. Life is full of distractions, but undertaking a PhD 
effectively means you have to put some of your interests aside to concentrate 
on a single topic for three years. This does not mean having a lack of outside 
interests, but it does mean that these need to be kept well in check and, if 
necessary, scaled down for periods.
6	 Doing too much teaching or outside work. It is easy to underestimate how 
much extra work there is in teaching (such as preparation and marking, Ch 13) 
and how tiring it can be. The obvious answer is to keep these activities under 
control but, if your involvement is partly due to a lack of finances, it is a tricky 
one to resolve. The same principles apply to outside work.
6  Planning and time management 
63
Diaries, timetables and planners
Organising your activities more carefully is an obvious way to gain 
productive time.
Diaries/calendars
A diary or calendar, whether maintained in hard copy or on a mobile, or 
other on-screen device or software, is the obvious way to keep track of 
your day-to-day schedule (for example, meetings, seminars and other 
activities) and to note any deadlines you have.
●
●For lengthy tasks, work your way back from key dates, creating 
milestones such as ‘finish library work for xxx’ or ‘prepare first draft 
of section x’.
●
●Refer to the diary frequently to keep yourself on track and to plan 
out each day and week.
●
●Try to get into the habit of looking at the next day’s activities the night 
before and the next week’s work at the end of the week. A diary with the 
‘week-to-view’ type of layout will help you to plan over the longer term.
●
●Number the weeks, so you can sense how time is progressing over 
longer periods, such as a term or semester. This may be important if 
you have teaching activities, so that you can keep in track with the 
undergraduate year.
In addition, having a written or electronic record of events, meetings 
or submissions can be helpful if you need to recollect when you did 
something when you come to write up.
Advantages of being organised
Being well-organised is especially important for large or long-term 
tasks like a PhD because it seems easier to put things off when 
deadlines seem distant. If you manage your time well, you will:
■
■keep on schedule and meet your submission deadline;
■
■complete work with less pressure, avoid the build-up of stress and 
fulfil your potential; 
■
■build your confidence about your ability to cope;
■
■avoid overlapping commitments and having to juggle more than one 
piece of work at a time.
✔
64 
Key PhD research skills
Timetables
When you have a lengthy task like researching or writing up a PhD, creating 
a detailed timetable of work can be useful because it helps to ensure you 
take into account all aspects of the work you have to complete by:
●
●breaking the task down into smaller parts;
●
●spacing these out appropriately;
●
●scheduling important work for when you generally feel most 
intellectually active (e.g. mid-morning).
One advantage of a timetable is that you can see the progress you are 
making if you cross out each ‘mini-task’ as it is completed.
Investigate how you really use your time
Time-management experts often ask clients to write down what they 
do for every minute of several days and thereby work out how and 
where the productive time disappears. If you are unsure whether 
you are optimising time, you might like to keep a detailed record for 
a short period, using a suitable coding for your activities. When you 
have identified any time that has been less productive you could 
try analysing how this has happened. Those of a more numerical 
bent might wish to construct a spreadsheet to do this and work out 
percentages spent on different activities. Once you have completed 
your timesheet, appraise it to see whether you spend excessive 
amounts of time on any one activity or may not have the balance right.
✔
Wall planners
These are another way of charting out your activities, with the advantage 
that you can see all your commitments and deadlines at a glance.
Whiteboards
Some students find it useful to use a whiteboard or other surface to 
mark up and amend a flexible plan to help them keep track of their 
commitments, goals and plans.
Always build flexibility into your planning
We often end up rushing things because the unexpected has 
interrupted a timetable that is too tightly scheduled. To avoid this, 
introduce empty slots into your plans to allow for contingencies.
✔
6  Planning and time management 
65
Thinking ahead
Anticipating events that need to be included in your time planning 
is important. For example, if you need to book a particular piece of 
equipment, this clearly needs to be done in advance. Failure to place 
the booking can upset your planning and waste valuable time – not 
only your own, but that of others whose work schedules may have 
been adversely affected because of your last-minute booking.
Similarly, if you need to monitor the subjects of your research, perhaps 
in a clinic or classroom, then you will need to schedule a visit that 
coincides with their availability. If you fail to do this, then you may miss 
the opportunity and damage your research objectives and timetable.
The various milestones of a PhD are listed in Table 1.1. Some of these 
events, such as seminars and annual reports, will require a lot of 
preparation. Forward planning is a useful way of avoiding a last-minute 
rush.
Listing and prioritising
At times you may have a number of different tasks that need to be 
done. Write these tasks down as a list each day, rather than risk 
forgetting them. You will then have a good picture of what needs to be 
done and will be able to prioritise the tasks more readily.
Once you’ve created a list, rank the tasks by numbering them 1, 2, 3 
and so on, in order from ‘important and urgent’ to ‘neither important 
nor urgent’ (see Figure 6.1). Your ‘important’ criteria will depend on 
many factors: for example, your own goals and submission dates.
Each day, you should try to complete as many of the listed tasks 
as you can, starting with number one. If you keep each day’s list 
achievable, the process of striking out each task as it is completed 
provides a feeling of progress being made, which turns into one of 
satisfaction if the list has virtually disappeared by the evening. Also, 
you will become less stressed once high-priority tasks are tackled.
Carry over any uncompleted tasks to the next day, add new ones to 
your list and start again – but try to complete yesterday’s unfinished 
jobs before starting new ones of similar priority, or they will end up 
being delayed for too long.
This technique works well for practical aspects of researching. 
Once you get to the writing-up phase, it becomes less easy to 
66 
Key PhD research skills
apply list-making to the writing task itself. However, keeping lists of 
non-writing things you need to do helps you to deal with each item 
separately and keep your mind free to focus on the writing in progress.
For example, in normal circumstances, visiting the barber or hairdresser 
will be neither terribly important nor particularly urgent, but if you have 
to present a conference poster next week, then the ‘shaggy dog’ look 
you have been cultivating may require some attention, meaning that 
making a salon appointment moves further up your ‘to do’ list. Hence, 
priorities are not static and need to be reassessed frequently.
Figure 6.1  The urgent–important 
approach to prioritising. Place each 
activity somewhere on the axes in 
relation to its importance and urgency. 
Do all the activities in sector 1 first, 
then 2 or 3, and last 4.
How can you decide on your priorities?
This involves distinguishing between important and urgent activities.
■
■Importance implies some assessment of the benefits of completing 
a task against the loss if the task is not finished.
■
■Urgency relates to the length of time before the task must be 
completed.
?
Routines and good work habits
Many people find that carrying out specific tasks at special periods of 
the day or times of the week helps them to get things done on time. 
You may already adopt this approach with routine tasks like doing 
your shopping every Tuesday morning or visiting a relative on Sunday 
afternoons. You may find it helps to add work-related activities to your 
6  Planning and time management 
67
Create an artificial deadline
If working on a medium-sized task such as a seminar or progress 
monitoring report, set yourself a finishing date that is well in advance of 
the formal presentation or submission deadline. That way you will have 
the luxury of time to review your work, correct errors and improve the 
quality of presentation.
✔
list of routines – for example, by making Monday evening a time for 
literature searching in the library.
Good working habits can help with time management:
●
●Do important work when you are at your most productive. Most of 
us can state when we work best (i.e. morning, afternoon or evening). 
When you have worked this out for yourself, timetable your activities 
to suit: carry out academic work when you are ‘most awake’ and 
routine activities when you are less alert.
●
●Make the most of small scraps of time. Use otherwise unproductive 
time, such as when commuting or before going to sleep, to jot down 
ideas, edit work or make plans. Keep a paper or electronic notebook 
with you to write down your thoughts.
●
●Keep your documents organised. If your papers are well filed, then 
you won’t waste time looking for something required for the next 
step.
●
●Make sure you always have a plan. Often, the reason projects don’t 
go well is because there is no scheme for the work. Laying out a plan 
for any academic research or writing helps you to clarify the likely 
structure behind your efforts. Writing out a fairly detailed plan saves 
you time in the long run. It is also an aid to consolidating your thinking.
●
●Extend your working day. If you can deal with early rising, you may 
find that setting your alarm earlier than normal provides a few extra 
hours to help you achieve a short-term goal.
●
●Allocate a specific day each week for ‘house-keeping’ your research. 
Taking the time to audit your achievements and progress over the 
previous week and anticipate your next steps will stimulate your 
planning for the following week. This can also be an opportunity to 
catch up on routine tasks such as administration or managing your 
work space, materials and equipment. Using this strategy means 
that you start your next research period with a clear desk and a plan 
of action for the following week.
68 
Key PhD research skills
What to do if you can’t get started on a task 
or can’t complete it
People agree that one of the hardest parts of time management is 
getting started on tasks. Putting things off – procrastination – is all too 
easy, and can involve the following displacement activities:
●
●convincing yourself that other low-priority work is more important or 
preferable;
●
●switching frequently among tasks, and not making much progress in 
any of them;
●
●talking about your work rather than doing it;
●
●‘helping’ others by discussing their work rather than getting on with 
your own; alternatively, being persuaded to help others with their 
work to the detriment of your own;
●
●planning for too long rather than working;
●
●having difficulty starting a piece of writing (‘writer’s block’);
●
●spending too long on presentational elements (for example, how a 
graph looks), rather than the ‘meat’ of the project;
●
●finding mundane TV programmes fascinating or being easily 
persuaded to socialise rather than work.
If you admit to any of these symptoms, you may be subconsciously 
procrastinating. Becoming more aware of how you might be falling into 
this trap is the first stage in consciously avoiding it.
Delaying completion of a task, in itself a form of procrastination, is 
another aspect of time management that many find difficult. It may be 
that you are avoiding moving on to another, more difficult task. Another 
possibility is that you are subconsciously anxious about the quality of 
the final submission and are therefore reluctant to produce the final 
version.
Procrastination is a special problem for perfectionists. Good time 
managers recognise when to finish tasks, even if the task is not in a 
‘perfect’ state. As a PhD student, recognising this can mean that the 
sum of multiple tasks is better, because your attention is divided more 
appropriately, rather than focusing on a single element. 
Tips for getting started on tasks and completing them on time are 
provided in Table 6.2.
6  Planning and time management 
69
Table 6.2  Tips for getting started on research tasks and meeting deadlines.
1  Improve your study environment.
• Create a tidy workplace. Although tidying up can be a symptom of 
procrastination, in general it is easier to start studying at an empty desk and in 
an uncluttered room.
• Reduce noise. It is generally other people’s noise that really interrupts your train 
of thought. A solution might be to go to a quiet place like a library.
• Escape. Why not take all you need to a different location where there will be a 
minimum of interruptions?
2  Avoid distractions. If you are easily tempted away from study by your friends, you’ll 
have to learn to decline their invitations politely. ‘Disappear’ off to a quiet location 
without telling anyone where you will be; or switch off your phone, TV or email. 
3  Work in short bursts while your concentration is at a maximum. After this, 
give yourself a brief break, perhaps a short walk, and then start back again.
4  Find a way to start. When writing, finding a way to start is a very common 
problem because of the perceived need to begin with a ‘high impact’ sentence 
that reads impressively. This is unnecessary, and starting with a simple definition 
or restatement of the issue or problem is perfectly acceptable.
5  Focus on the positive. You may be so anxious about the end point of your 
task that this affects your ability to start it. For example, many students are so 
nervous about the apparent difficulty, or prospect, of writing at PhD level that they 
freeze in their preparation and put the whole thing off. One way to counter this 
would be to start writing about an aspect of the topic that excites you. Once you 
become immersed in this, the writing will become less daunting.
6  In written tasks, don’t feel you have to tackle the writing in a linear 
fashion. Word-processing software allows you work out of sequence, which can 
help get you going. So, for a PhD thesis, it might help to start on a part that is 
‘mechanical’, such as a reference list or results section. 
7  Cut up large tasks. If you feel overwhelmed by the size of the job and this 
prevents you from starting it, break the task down to manageable, achievable 
chunks. Then, try to complete something every day. Maintaining momentum in 
this way will allow you to whittle away the job in stages. 
8  Work alongside others. If you arrange to work alongside others, you can spur 
each other on with sympathy, humour and the promise of a break.
9  Ask for help. You may feel that you lack a particular skill to attempt some 
component of the task (for example, the ability to use a statistics program) and 
that this is holding you back. Don’t be afraid to ask for help, rather than suffering 
in isolation: consult a fellow student or your supervisor, or visit one of the many 
websites that offer assistance.
10  Don’t be a too much of a perfectionist. We all want to do well, but doing 
your very best takes time – a commodity that should be carefully rationed so 
that all tasks are given their fair share. Also, achieving fault-free work requires 
progressively more effort, with less return as you get nearer to perfection. The 
time you need to spend to attain the highest standards for one element will 
probably be better used on the next part of the task.
70 
Key PhD research skills
the value of unstructured time
The importance of allowing time in a schedule for contingencies has 
already been emphasised. Other uses for such ‘unstructured’ time 
include:
●
●carrying out minor tasks, such as tidying, that can improve efficiency 
and effectiveness;
●
●observing things or reading text more closely, perhaps for a second 
time, when new features may emerge;
●
●reflecting on past events;
●
●preparing mentally for future events.
Although this chapter stresses the importance of good time 
management, in PhD research work – whatever your discipline – make 
sure that you leave some time for serendipity to take over. 
Some of the most famous discoveries and inventions occurred during 
moments when the researcher was thinking about or doing something 
else (Ch 17). So, for example, leave some space in your timetable 
to browse amongst the library shelves, not looking for anything in 
particular, but just opening books because their titles look interesting or 
intriguing. You never know what you may find or what thought process 
will be sparked by what you have read. 
Alternatively, take a walk and look around you – being amongst nature, 
or even just in the fresh air may help you to arrive at an answer to a 
difficult problem.
Action points
6.1  Analyse your time-management personality. Can you 
recognise any character traits that might prevent you from 
organising your time effectively? Might any tips in this chapter help 
you become better at time management? How could you adapt 
them to your own situation?
6  Planning and time management 
71
6.2  Experiment with listing and prioritising. If you haven’t 
used this strategy before, test it out for a week or so. Make a 
list of all your current and future tasks, academic commitments, 
appointments and social events. Rearrange the list in order of 
priority. Take special care to take account of events that depend 
on other jobs being completed. Now try to complete the different 
components, ticking them off the list as you go. After your trial 
period, decide how effective the method was in organising your 
activities and helping you to ensure that tasks were done on time.
6.3  Declutter and reorganise your life. If you reckon that 
disorganisation is a reason for lack of progress (Table 6.2), make 
a determined effort to tidy things up. Start with your working 
environment, and, if necessary, invest in files and boxes to help 
you organise things. Keep out only that which is relevant to current 
activities and carefully store the rest. Decide how you can arrange 
your affairs more sensibly to keep on top of routine tasks. Now you 
should be in a better mental and physical position to get on with 
your research.
72 
Key PhD research skills
How to find relevant source material
Information literacy 
for PhD study
7
In researching for your PhD, you will generally be expected to source 
material for yourself. Your supervisor may suggest some resources 
to get you started, but after that it will be very much up to you to 
explore further, according to your specific project aims. Therefore, 
learning more about your university library from the viewpoint of a 
researcher is a priority. This chapter offers some suggestions and 
strategies for using your library resources effectively.
Key topics
➔
➔First steps for new researchers
➔
➔Basic types of source material
➔
➔How to access your university library’s e-resources
➔
➔Obtaining difficult-to-find sources
The library is a key resource in any research project. Modern university 
libraries are not just repositories of books, journals and archived 
material. They are information centres that coordinate an electronic 
gateway to a massive amount of online information. Accessing these 
resources requires a set of library information skills, sometimes 
called ‘information literacy’, that are essential to your research 
studies. This term has been defined as: ‘knowing when and why 
you need information, where to find it, and how to evaluate, use and 
communicate it in an ethical manner’ (CILIP, 2012).
First steps for new researchers
Although you might have studied in higher education for a few years 
and have used library resources quite extensively for undergraduate 
7  Information literacy for PhD study 
73
dissertation or project research, your PhD-level studies will probably 
mean that you need to delve into areas and facilities that you may not 
have had the occasion to explore or use before. For example, a doctor 
of medicine undertaking PhD research into euthanasia may find the 
need to access sources in Law, Philosophy or Theology, all of which 
would be entirely beyond their prior experience. Indeed, familiarising 
yourself with a new range of search engines in order to find new 
material at an appropriate level of detail to support your research may 
present a major challenge.
Spending time at the start to consider the different aspects of information 
literacy will bring later rewards. Library experts have identified seven 
key information skills – see the information tip overleaf. This analysis 
provides valuable clues about the expectations for your work at this new 
level, and you should self-assess how well you can carry out each of the 
seven skills. Essentially, for PhD level research, you will be expected to 
be able to carry out all of them at a high level of competence. Consult 
library staff if you feel you need assistance on any specific skill.
Library information systems are constantly changing as your library 
enters into agreements with new or different suppliers of online 
information through subscriptions to electronic media, especially 
e-journals, which are of particular importance in researching. Although 
you will probably find that your library provides an online information 
portal dedicated to your subject area, you may find it easier at the 
outset to contact the librarian with responsibility for collating links to 
these discipline-specific resources. In some libraries, there may also be 
librarians with the particular remit of supporting PhD students. Make 
How can I learn more about what my library has 
to offer?
The library in which you study for your PhD may be a new one to 
you if you have moved institutions between degrees and may offer 
different facilities or present facilities in a different way. Apart from 
contacting the librarian with responsibility for your discipline, you may 
find that library staff run training sessions on how to use referencing 
packages or on the use of new or subject-specific databases. Your 
library’s website may also carry useful tips and online access routes 
to databases and e-journals. Many libraries have hard-copy leaflets 
providing tips and guidelines for using a range of facilities and 
resources.
?
74 
Key PhD research skills
a point of identifying these specialists so that you can explain your 
research topic and benefit from their guidance and expertise to get 
your research journey on track. The following sections provide you with 
some insight into the new or not-so-new resources and techniques that 
you may find useful in this journey.
Basic types of source material
As noted already, you will be expected to research your topic 
extensively and you should highlight some of the source materials 
that you may find useful. Some of these materials might be 
classed as primary sources, while others might be thought of as 
secondary sources (Table 7.1). This terminology has slightly different 
interpretations depending on your discipline. 
The seven key information skills associated with 
information literacy (SCONUL, 2011)
1	 The ability to identify a personal need for information (‘identify’ 
information).
2	 The ability to assess current knowledge and identify gaps (‘scope’ 
information).
3	 The ability to construct strategies for locating information and data 
(‘plan’ information).
4	 The ability to locate and access the information and data needed 
(‘gather’ information).
5	 The ability to review the research process and compare and evaluate 
information and data (‘evaluate’ information).
6	 The ability to organise information professionally and ethically 
(‘manage’ information).
7	 The ability to apply the knowledge gained: presenting the results 
of their research, synthesising new and old information and data 
to create new knowledge and disseminating it in a variety of ways 
(‘present’ information).
These skills are discussed at various points in this book, most 
notably in this chapter and Chapter 8, but also in Chapters 9 and 
17–21.
i
7  Information literacy for PhD study 
75
Table 7.1  Characteristics and examples of primary and secondary sources 
of information.
Primary sources – 
those in which ideas 
and data are first 
communicated.
• The primary literature in your subject may be published 
in the form of papers (articles) in journals. Such literature 
is usually refereed by experts in the authors’ academic 
peer group, who check the accuracy and originality of 
the work and report their opinions back to the journal 
editors (Ch 8). This system helps to maintain reliability, 
but it is not perfect.
• Books (and, more rarely, articles in magazines and 
newspapers) can also be primary sources but this 
depends on the nature of the information published 
rather than the medium. These sources are not formally 
refereed, although they may be read by editors and 
lawyers to check for errors and unsubstantiated or 
libellous allegations.
• Original materials that have been published to provide 
information to a wide and not necessarily expert 
audience. For example, White Papers, Financial 
statements, Public Enquiry Reports and epidemiological 
reports are all primary sources that differ from other 
categories in this list in that they provide the ‘raw’ 
information without interpretation by others. This kind 
of material allows you as a researcher to come to 
independent and perhaps original conclusions. Such 
documentation is particularly important in the Arts and 
Social Sciences where incisive interpretation can be 
an indicator of critical thinking (Ch 17) and hence the 
quality of research.
Secondary sources 
– those which quote, 
adapt, interpret, 
translate, develop 
or otherwise use 
information drawn 
from primary 
sources.
• It is the act of recycling that makes the source 
secondary, rather than the medium. Reviews are 
examples of secondary sources in the academic world, 
and textbooks and magazine articles are often of this 
type.
• As people adopt, modify, translate and develop 
information and ideas, alterations are likely to occur, 
whether intentional or unintentional. Most authors of 
secondary sources do not deliberately set out to change 
the meaning of the primary source, but they may do 
so unwittingly. Others, consciously or unconsciously, 
may exert bias in their reporting by quoting evidence 
primarily on one side of a debate.
• Modifications while creating a secondary source could 
involve adding valuable new ideas and content or 
correcting errors.
76 
Key PhD research skills
Checking the reliability of source material
Essentially, the content of source material contains facts and ideas 
originating from someone’s research or scholarship. These can be 
descriptions, concepts, interpretations or numerical data. At some 
point, information or ideas must be communicated or published, 
otherwise no-one would know about them. Generally, the literature in 
any subject can be categorised as a ‘primary’ or ‘secondary’ source. 
Information and ideas usually appear first in the primary literature 
and may be modified later in the secondary literature (Table 7.1). 
Understanding this process is important, not only when analysing 
and evaluating information, but also when deciding on the evidence 
or references to cite (Ch 20). Logically, the closer you can get to the 
primary source, the more consistent the information is likely to be with 
the original.
Typical resources obtainable through your library include:
●
●Monographs – books on a single, often narrow, subject.
●
●Reference works – useful for obtaining facts and definitions, and a 
concise overview of a subject. These include general and subject-
specific encyclopaedias, yearbooks and dictionaries, and can be 
found in the area of the library reserved for reference material. These 
items usually cannot be borrowed. While some may be available 
online, others might only exist in hardcopy. It is well worthwhile 
familiarising yourself with them at an early stage in your studies.
Assumed knowledge
As a graduate, it will be assumed that you will have a working 
knowledge of how a university library functions, such as:
■
■how to use an electronic catalogue for your own and other libraries;
■
■how hard-copy resources are shelved, probably using one of the two 
commonly used methods – the Dewey decimal system (numerical 
coding) or the Library of Congress System (alphanumeric system);
■
■how to find a periodical or journal in hard copy or online;
■
■the borrowing rules, including the borrowing periods and fines.
If you are unfamiliar with any of these aspects of library use in your 
institution, you should ask for assistance from a librarian.
✔
7  Information literacy for PhD study 
77
●
●Research papers – very detailed ‘articles’ published in journals, 
covering specific subject areas. Proceedings of conferences where 
cutting-edge research had been presented would also fall into this 
category. These may also be available online.
●
●Reviews – analysis of a research area, often detailed and more 
up-to-date than books.
●
●Textbooks – good for gaining an overview of the field.
●
●Websites – some are published by official bodies and should 
therefore be reliable in their content; however, other websites 
without such provenance are not wholly reliable as sources, 
although they may be useful for comparing viewpoints and sourcing 
other information.
How to access your university library’s 
e-resources
This is normally done via the library’s website. Some resources are 
open-access, but others will require a special password. This may 
depend on the system used in your library, for example, ATHENS or 
Shibboleth. Note that different institutions will operate slightly different 
systems but, if in doubt, ask a member of the library staff.
Many current items are now available online in each of the categories 
listed above. For example, libraries take out subscriptions to e-book 
repositories, e-journals, e-newspapers and online dictionaries 
and encyclopaedias. Your institution will have its own method of 
giving access to these resources, probably via the library electronic 
desktop.
The main advantage of this method of accessing information is that 
it is available 24 hours a day from any computer connected to the 
The value of using more than one source
It is fundamental to the research process that you should consult a 
number of sources on any given issue. These may corroborate each 
other, or you may find that they take different views or support different 
interpretations. Interrogating these different ‘schools of thought’ is 
sometimes referred to as ‘reading around’ a subject. This reading 
contributes to the analytical processes of critical thinking (see Ch 18).
✔
78 
Key PhD research skills
Internet. Some e-book facilities, such as ebrary, offer features such as 
searching, note-making and linked online dictionaries.
One point to note is that copying/printing out from such sources is 
governed by copyright restrictions.
Key online research techniques
Your research skills will now need to become deeper than in your early 
years of study, because your thesis needs to be based on reliable, 
refereed evidence that is both up to date and comprehensive in relation 
to your topic. For example, it will not be sufficient to base your work 
on a few isolated references, augmented by searches of the Internet or 
Wikipedia. You will need to identify and access new sources.
To find sources new to you, there are, essentially, three key approaches:
1	 Database searches. These find sources based on key words 
related to your research topic. The output is a listing of reference 
details plus abstract/summary material from a wide range of 
sources. From this list, you can select references that might be of 
particular relevance, although it may only be possible to judge how 
significant they really are when you read the full paper.
2	 Citation-based searches. With this kind of search, you start with 
an article and its reference list. From this list, you backtrack through 
selected references making judgements about their relevance and 
value and, potentially, in turn looking at items cited in their reference 
lists. This enables you to gain a perspective on the literature of your 
subject area, working backwards from the starting point of your 
most recent source, but it does not enable you to identify more 
recent research.
Shibboleth and ATHENS
These are systems that provide a gateway to a number of different 
databases used by academic researchers (ATHENS is being phased 
out in some locations). In many cases access is automatic when you 
are recognised as a logged in member of your university. In some 
cases you may gain access solely via a library computer. Where 
these ‘automatic’ systems do not function, you may have to obtain a 
password through your institutional library. This will identify you as an 
authorised user for as long as you are a student.
i
7  Information literacy for PhD study 
79
3	 Searches using citation indices. These searches rely on the 
availability of databases (for example, the Science Citation Index 
or British Humanities Index) which give details of publications that 
have cited a given reference. In other words, they allow you to work 
forward in time towards more current research. This can be very 
useful if your original sources are slightly dated.
Obtaining difficult-to-find sources
Access to the sources identified by any of the above methods is not 
guaranteed. They may be published in journals to which your library 
does not subscribe. However, most materials are obtainable via a 
system of inter-library loans that can be arranged through your own 
library site by a specialist inter-library loan librarian, although there 
are cost implications in this process (usually, the cost is borne by the 
borrower).
Most libraries share resources with those of neighbouring institutions 
and all are linked to the British Library (www.bl.uk), the national library 
of the UK. This receives a copy of every publication produced in the 
UK and Ireland, and its massive collection of over 150 million items 
increases by 3 million items each year. Some university libraries 
are designated as European Documentation Centres holding key 
documents of the European Union (http://ec.europa.eu/europedirect/
visit_us/edc/index_en.htm).
Accessing ‘raw’ data
Electronic databases make it easier to access information from public 
bodies, and much of that kind of information is also now more readily 
Should I use a source that I’ve found by chance  
on the Internet?
‘Browsing’ your topic using one of the major search engines will 
probably produce a wealth of links. This approach can produce good 
material that has been provided for open access. However, be sure 
that the sites you enter are authoritative sources and do not contain 
unsubstantiated and possibly erroneous information. As a ground 
rule, if the material appears to be useful, then try to triangulate it with 
references from within recognised academic publications, whether 
online or in hard copy.
?
80 
Key PhD research skills
available online. For example, statistical population details are available 
through the National Statistics website (www.statistics.gov.uk), while 
papers and publications produced by the Houses of Parliament can 
also be accessed electronically (www.parliament.uk). Clearly, the 
types of data in this category that you may wish to access will depend 
on your research topic. In the Arts and Social Sciences, these types of 
resource would be categorised as primary sources (Ch 8) since they 
present information without interpretation by others. 
Accessing archive material
The use of primary sources is fundamental to research in many 
disciplines, but especially in the Arts and Humanities. Many universities 
hold archive material of original documents, collections, artefacts and 
other source material that can be of particular relevance to PhD study. 
Your university web page will give you further information about how 
to access such resources usually through a distinct Archives Service. 
There it may be possible to speak directly with an archivist to explain 
your thesis topic and find out what resources might be of possible 
interest and relevance to your study. 
Keeping tabs on web sources
The nature of the Web means that it is a constantly changing 
environment where material is made accessible very quickly – and can, 
of course, be altered or even removed with similar speed. Thus, it is 
important to keep a detailed record of all references you have found 
online, and provide the ‘Accessed’ date (see Ch 20).
✔
Action points
7.1  Spend some time becoming thoroughly acquainted with 
the electronic library resources available to you. Look, in 
particular, at any subject-specific resources that are provided on 
the catalogue system or via the library website.
7.2  Explore the shelves covering your subject area. Identify 
this area from the library catalogue and the information in the 
shelving aisles. ‘Browsing’ the books on foot may reveal interesting 
resources you might not find by other searching methods. Note that 
research journals may be stored in a different area of the library.
7  Information literacy for PhD study 
81
7.3  Find out about alternative library facilities. In some cases, 
there may be satellite libraries on different campuses or in different 
buildings. Some of these may be departmental libraries, containing 
specialist resources. These can contain duplicate holdings of 
books in the main library. Importantly, you may find they represent 
convenient or preferable study areas. Even if they do not cover 
your subject area, you may find their atmosphere more suited to 
your mood, learning style or personality.
82 
Key PhD research skills
8
How to read and evaluate 
research publications
Accessing content 
from the literature
A search for information sources related to your PhD topic will bring 
forward a variety of sources to consider: some relevant, some not 
so; some reliable, some not so. To evaluate these, you will need to 
develop the skills of assessing content, reading for meaning, and 
considering the origin and value of information.
Key topics
➔
➔The initial survey of potential source material
➔
➔Examining the structure of the writing
➔
➔Text-reading techniques
➔
➔Checking the reliability of source material
➔
➔Identifying bias in text
Whatever the subject of your PhD, the ability to evaluate the 
information and ideas in source material is essential. This is a key 
aspect of ‘information literacy’, involving multi-faceted skills (Ch 7). 
Your analysis may centre on the accuracy or truth of the information 
itself, the reliability or potential bias of the source of the information, 
or the value of information in relation to some argument or case. You 
may also come across contradictory sources of evidence or conflicting 
arguments based on the same information. You will need to assess 
their relative merits. 
To do any or all of these tasks, you will need to read the text effectively 
and appraise the origin and nature of the information you find.
8  Accessing content from the literature 
83
In ‘scientific’ subjects, you will often need to interpret and check the 
reliability of data. This is essential for setting up and testing meaningful 
hypotheses (Ch 3), and therefore at the core of the scientific approach. 
In ‘non-scientific’ subjects, ideas and concepts tend to be more 
important, and you may need to carry out an objective analysis of 
information and arguments so you can construct your own position, 
backed up with evidence (Ch 18).
The initial survey of potential source material
You will need to be discerning about your reading choice and in this 
chapter it is assumed that you have found a new text source (Ch 7) 
and wish to evaluate it in order to establish its value to your appraisal 
of the literature. The focus here will be on the most common sources 
of information: books, research papers or reviews, and websites, but 
similar principles apply to other types of source.
You should first carry out a quick survey to familiarise yourself with 
what the source contains. For books and longer reviews you might find 
contents or section listing near the front and some websites have site 
maps, links or tabs that will help. You then can use elements of the 
structure to answer key questions about the content, as indicated in 
Table 8.1.
The answers to these questions will help you to decide whether to 
investigate further; whether you need to look at the whole source, or 
just selected parts; or whether the source is of limited value at the 
present time.
Record information about all sources you find
Sometimes, keyword searches and even seemingly relevant titles and 
abstracts can lead you to papers that are not of immediate value. If 
this is the case, don’t discard these sources, but keep the reference 
information and brief notes about the content in a filing system – it 
is very frustrating to forget or mislay details of sources which later 
transpire to be highly relevant.
✔
84 
Key PhD research skills
Table 8.1  Questions to ask when reading a new source. The individual 
questions will have greater or lesser relevance depending on the nature of the 
source (i.e. book, paper/review or website) and your specific area of research
Who wrote it and why?
Details of authorship are usually given alongside the title or on the preliminary 
pages. The status of the author(s) might be useful (academic qualifications 
imply some authority and reliability, for example). You might find their affiliation 
there too (perhaps a university or company). The authors may be well-known 
authorities in the subject area – or previously unknown to you. Whatever is the 
case, you should carry out the same rigorous analysis of the content. It can 
be difficult to find out who wrote a website and indeed parts may have been 
written and edited by a range of workers. This is especially the case with wikis. 
The preliminary information may also give reasons for publication (for example, 
scholarship, publicity, sponsorship) that might influence your analysis. 
Who published it?
Well-known publishers have a vested interest in ensuring content is reliable and 
valid and often put in place rigorous refereeing/reviewing/editing procedures to 
ensure this is the case. Websites may be sponsored or part of a bigger web 
presence and have the same controls.
When was it written?
This is usually obvious from the title pages. The date of publication will help you 
to put the source in its context and decide, for example whether its assumptions, 
methods or conclusions remain valid. Old material can remain valid for a 
surprising amount of time in some disciplines, but be outdated very quickly 
in others. Web-based material can be difficult to date as it may be modified 
frequently after its first appearance (Ch 20).
Can I rely on the information within?
You will get clues from the author’s affiliation (see above) and publisher, but you 
will need to focus on the content too. Your judgement should be influenced by: 
standard of presentation; the methods used; analysis with statistics; and the 
support given to the position within by the literature that is cited (Ch 20).
What does it say?
The title (and abstract for a paper or review) should be informative, but they may 
mislead because key aspects may have been omitted for space, or because the 
authors wish to make a headline-grabbing statement. For books, the contents 
listing or index may be helpful to find relevant material. There is quite frequently 
a mismatch between what the author(s) think(s) or say(s) they’ve done and what 
you may feel after reading the main body of the paper or book.
How does it fit with my current interests?
This clearly depends on your research question (Ch 3) and the part of the overall 
thesis structure that you are working on. If you have used a pictorial or tabular 
structure to lay out your key thoughts on relevant issues, then you can add the 
citation alongside or in a parallel structure. Those who like to use reference cards 
(Ch 9) may like to lay these out over a desk or table to find groupings or trends. 
8  Accessing content from the literature 
85
Examining the structure of the writing
Learning how to access the content of academic texts quickly will be 
of significance in saving time as well as giving you a grasp of the main 
thrust of a text you plan to read in full. 
Well-structured academic texts usually follow a standard pattern with 
an introduction, main body and conclusion in each element. Sometimes 
the introduction may comprise several paragraphs; sometimes it 
may be only one paragraph. Similarly, the conclusion may be several 
paragraphs or only one. Figure 8.1 illustrates a model layout for a piece 
of text with five paragraphs, comprising an introduction and conclusion 
with three intervening paragraphs of varying length.
Within the structure of well-written academic text, each paragraph 
will be introduced by a topic sentence stating the content of the 
paragraph. Each paragraph performs a function. For example, some 
may describe, others may provide examples, while others may examine 
points in favour of a particular viewpoint, others points against that 
viewpoint. The function of these paragraphs, and the sentences within 
them, is usually signalled by use of ‘signpost words’ that guide the 
reader through the logical structure of the text. For example, the word 
‘however’ indicates that some contrast is about to be made with a 
Figure 8.1  Sample textual layout. Most samples of academic text will be 
similarly organised.
Topic development
Topic development
Topic development
86 
Key PhD research skills
point immediately before; ‘therefore’ or ‘thus’ signals that a result or 
effect is about to be explained. Examples of signpost words are shown 
in Table 8.2. You can use this knowledge of the structure of writing to 
establish the substance of a piece of text.
Table 8.2  Examples of signpost words and phrases used to indicate and 
manage the flow of writing. These are sometimes called ‘discourse markers’ 
or ‘cohesive devices’ because they contribute to the construction of the 
discussion within a text (Ch 27).
Type of link intended
Examples of signpost words
Addition
additionally; furthermore; in addition; moreover
Cause/reason
as a result of; because (mid-sentence)
Comparison
compared with; in the same way; in comparison with; 
likewise
Condition
if; on condition that; providing that; unless
Contrast
although, by contrast; conversely; despite; however; 
nevertheless; yet
Effect/result
as a result; hence; therefore; thus
Exemplification
for example; for instance; particularly; such as; thus
Reformulation
in other words; rather; to paraphrase
Summary 
finally; hence; in all; in conclusion; in short; in summary
Time sequence
after; at first; at last; before; eventually; subsequently
Transition
as far as . . . is concerned; as for; to turn to
Reader as author
The points in this chapter about the organisation of printed material 
and the structure of text are important for you as a reader or ‘decoder’ 
of text. This awareness should also come into play when you act as an 
academic author yourself and have to write about your own ideas in 
your thesis or research papers.
✔
Text-reading techniques
With good technique, your searches will provide plenty of information 
to assess. There will be much to read, and you will need to develop the 
skills of doing this quickly, while simultaneously abstracting meaning 
8  Accessing content from the literature 
87
and assessing relevance. As a graduate student, you will probably 
have developed speed-reading skills to some degree but may not 
have been truly attuned to the underlying principles of the ‘shape’ of 
academic writing before now. Relevant strategies to help you ‘access’ 
the content of text include:
●
●Picking out the topic sentences. Read the topic and terminator 
paragraphs, or even just their topic sentences, to gain a quick 
overview of that element. Follow this by reading the topic sentences 
for the intervening paragraphs to provide an overview of the 
entire section or chapter you are evaluating. This will aid your 
understanding before you study-read the whole text. At this point, 
you will already have made judgements about whether this text is 
appropriate and how you rate it as germane to your research for 
whatever reason.
●
●Skimming. This is where you pick out a specific piece of information 
by quickly letting the eye run down a list or over a page looking for 
a key word or phrase, as when seeking a particular name or address 
in a phone book. This might help you to judge whether the text you 
are reading is in the register (tone) and genre (format) appropriate to 
research level study (Ch 26). For example, if key ‘jargon’ or technical 
words are missing, then it is possible that the text is not tackling the 
issue at the level you require.
●
●Scanning. Here, you let your eye run quickly over a section, for 
example, before you commit yourself to study-read it. Sometimes 
headings and sub-headings may be used, which will give some 
indication of the sequence being followed in delivering information. 
This will help you to gain an overview of the content before you 
start.
●
●Identifying the signpost words. As noted in Table 8.2, these help 
guide you as the reader through the logical process that the author 
has mapped out for you.
●
●Recognising clusters of grammatically allied words as well as subject 
word ‘strings’. Subliminally, good readers group words in clusters 
according to their natural alliances. This helps the reader to make 
fewer fixations (see tip overleaf). A similar characteristic applies to 
reading texts used at PhD level since these often contain specialised 
word ‘strings’ that form a single meaningful concept (Ch 27); looking 
for such word strings will help you to assimilate content and hence 
evaluate its merit more quickly.
88 
Key PhD research skills
●
●Taking cues from punctuation. As you read, you will gain some 
understanding by interpreting the text using the cues of full-stops 
and commas, for example, to help you gain understanding of what 
you are reading.
To be effective, reading quickly must be matched by a good level 
of comprehension. Clearly, you need to incorporate tests of your 
understanding to check that you have understood the main points 
of the text. One method of reading that incorporates this is called 
the SQ3R Method – Survey, Question, Read, Recall and Review 
(Table 8.3).
The essence of speed-reading
Fast readers tend to operate by using their peripheral vision (what you 
see, while staring ahead, at the furthest extreme to the right and the 
left). This means that they absorb clusters of words in one ‘flash’ or 
‘fixation’ on the text. A reader who does this is reading more efficiently 
than the reader who reads word-by-word. Research has indicated 
that people who read slowly word-by-word are less likely to absorb 
information quickly enough for the brain to process.
i
Assessing sources of facts
Some sources and facts can be considered very reliable. In the 
sciences, one interpretation of reliability is that the observation or 
experiment can be repeated by a competent peer – well-established 
‘textbook’ knowledge usually falls into this category. In other areas, 
reliability may be bound up with the track record and authority of the 
person making the assertion, or in the nature of the evidence which is 
cited to support a case.
✔
One important method of establishing reliability is whether the original 
source has been ‘peer reviewed’ (Table 8.1). This is where the material 
is reviewed by one or more academics (‘referees’) working in the same 
field, prior to being accepted for publication. This helps to ensure that:
●
●the material is original;
●
●all relevant past work is quoted;
●
●conflicting theories and opinions are mentioned;
8  Accessing content from the literature 
89
●
●any data and calculations are checked;
●
●interpretations of information and data are valid.
Such reviews cannot guarantee reliability, and it can be argued that 
they may act to entrench ‘established’ viewpoints: radical new ideas 
often encounter extreme resistance when they are first put forward. It 
is the journal editor’s task to ensure that a balance between freedom of 
expression and satisfactory reasoning is maintained.
Other sources can be a lot less reliable. They may not cite evidence, 
or this may not be available for examination by others. In the worst 
cases, evidence may be fabricated or impossible to assess or test. 
Table 8.3  Reading for remembering: the SQ3R Method. The point of this 
method is that the reader has to engage in processing the material in the text 
and does not simply read on ‘autopilot’ where very little is being retained.
Survey stage
• Read the first paragraph (Topic Paragraph) and last paragraph (Terminator 
Paragraph) of the relevant section of text
• Read the intervening paragraph topic sentences
• Focus on the headings and sub-headings, if present
• Study the graphs and diagrams for key features
Question stage
• What do you know already about this topic?
• What is the author likely to tell you?
• What specifically do you need to find out?
Read stage
• Read the entire section quickly to get the gist of the piece of writing; finger-
tracing techniques may be helpful at this point
• Go back to the question stage and revisit your initial answers
• Look especially for keywords, key statements, signpost words
• Do not stop to look up unknown words – go for completion
Recall stage
• Turn the text over (or look away from the screen) and try to recall as much as 
possible
• Make relevant notes
• Turn over the source again
• Check over for accuracy of recall. Suggested recall periods – every 20 minutes
Review stage
After a break, try to recall the main points
90 
Key PhD research skills
What you read could be misquoted, misrepresented, erroneous or 
based on a faulty premise. The data presented may carry no indication 
of error levels. These risks are particularly important for of Web-based 
information, as this is less likely to be refereed or edited.
An obvious way to check reliability is to make cross-referencing 
checks. ‘Triangulating’ in this way involves looking at more than one 
source and comparing what is said in each. The sources should be 
as independent as possible (for example, do not compare an original 
source with one that is directly based on it). If you find the sources 
agree, you may become more certain of your position. If two sources 
differ, you may need to decide which is better.
The quality of academic work is often indicated by the extent and 
quality of citations provided by the author. This applies particularly to 
articles in academic journals, where positions are usually supported 
by citations of others’ work. These citations may demonstrate that a 
certain amount of research has been carried out beforehand, and that 
the ideas or results are based on genuine scholarship. If you doubt 
the quality of the work, these references might be worth looking at. 
How up-to-date are they? Do they cite independent work, or is the 
author exclusively quoting him- or herself or the work of one particular 
researcher?
This leads to another form of cross-referencing, which is to look at who 
else has cited the author’s work, and how. In many subjects, you can 
use the Web of Knowledge, www.webofknowledge.com, to find out 
how often an article or author has been cited and by whom. You may 
then be able to consult these sources to see how others have viewed 
the original findings. Reviews of a subject area published after your 
source may also provide useful comments.
How can you check whether a source is peer 
reviewed?
For academic journals, this may be in or close to the ‘information for 
authors’ section which appears every three months or so in current 
(unbound) volumes, or on specific web pages and may provide 
valuable insights and background information about the submission, 
refereeing and editing process. Some journals also indicate who edited 
or refereed specific articles. In books, the acknowledgements section 
may indicate whether a peer has assisted by reading a draft.
?
8  Accessing content from the literature 
91
Identifying bias in text
In many subjects it is important to differentiate fact from opinion. To do 
this when reading material that is unfamiliar, you may need to answer 
the following questions:
●
●To what extent has the author supported a given viewpoint?
●
●Has relevant supporting information been quoted, via literature 
citations or the author’s own researches?
●
●Are numerical data used to substantiate the points used?
●
●Are these data reliable and can you verify the information, for 
example, by looking at a source that was cited?
●
●Might the author have a hidden reason for putting forward biased 
evidence to support a personal opinion?
At some point, you should concentrate on analysing the method being 
used to put the points over, rather than the facts themselves. This will 
help you detect fallacious arguments and logical flaws (Ch 18).
Analyse the language used 
Words and their use can be very revealing. Have subjective or objective 
sentence structures been employed? The former might indicate a 
personal opinion rather than an objective conclusion. Are there any 
tell-tale signs of misinformation? Bias might be indicated by absolute 
terms, such as ‘everyone knows. . .’; ‘I can guarantee that. . .’ or, a 
seemingly unbalanced consideration of the evidence. How carefully 
has the author considered the topic? A less studious approach might 
be indicated by exaggeration, ambiguity, or the use of journalese and 
slang. Always remember, however, that content should be judged 
above presentation.
✔
You should look closely at any data and graphs that are presented and 
the way they have been analysed. If the information you are looking 
at is numerical in form, have the errors of any data been taken into 
consideration, and, where appropriate, quantified? If so, does this 
help you arrive at a conclusion about how genuine the differences are 
between important values? Have the appropriate statistical methods 
been used to analyse the data? Are the underlying hypotheses the 
right ones? Have the results of any tests been interpreted correctly in 
92 
Key PhD research skills
arriving at the conclusion? Look closely at any graphs. These may have 
been constructed in such a way as to emphasise a particular viewpoint, 
for example, by careful selection of axis starting points (Ch 21).
Don’t be blinded by statistics. Leaving aside the issue that statistical 
methods don’t actually deal with proof, only probability (Ch 21), it is 
generally possible to analyse and present data in such a way that they 
support one chosen argument or hypothesis rather than another (as in 
the adage ‘you can prove anything with statistics’). To deal with these 
matters, you will need at least a basic understanding of the ‘statistical 
approach’ and of the techniques in common use (Chs 21 and 23).
Action points
8.1  As a new PhD student, gain a feel for the primary literature 
in your subject area. This may be shelved in the library building or 
you may be expected to access it online (or both). Read one or two 
articles to gain a flavour of the format, style of writing, language 
and sources used. Initially, expect to find some of the subject 
matter relatively impenetrable; as you progress, you will master 
much of the jargon used.
8.2  Use the questions in Table 8.1 to assess a source about 
which you are uncertain. If you are unable to establish its 
reliability, you should research further around the topic.
8.3  Practise analysing excerpts of text for their underlying 
structure. Can you identify the types of paragraphs and sentences 
being used? Can you identify how where signpost words are 
being used to direct or redirect your thoughts as a reader? 
Understanding how these methods are used in practice is a 
valuable route to developing your own proficiency in writing.
9  Organising research materials 
93
9
How to collect and file information 
and details of references
Organising research materials
You will come across a large amount of potential source material 
in your researches. If you wish to copy this, you will need to take 
account of copyright law as it applies to copying for ‘educational 
purposes’. Whether you create a copy or not, you will need effective 
note-making techniques to abstract the key points as these relate to 
your research topic.
Key topics
➔
➔Copying or printing out source material
➔
➔Making research notes from sources
➔
➔Themed research notes
➔
➔Indexing and organising your resources and research notes
Over three or more years of PhD research, you will consult all manner 
of source materials. You will copy or print out some sources and take 
notes from others. All this paperwork and related information needs 
to be organised so that you can retrieve it easily when necessary. In 
addition, comprehensive reference details will be required for those 
sources you quote in your thesis and any research publications. 
Formats for citation and reference lists are discussed in Chapter 
20 – this chapter deals with ways in which you can keep the detailed 
information required for creating reference lists.
Copying or printing out source material
Having a paper copy of your source material can be extremely 
convenient. You can view this at your convenience, annotate it and 
94 
Key PhD research skills
store it for later reference. It can take the form of an original printed 
version, a photocopy, a scan or a printout. Increasingly, digital media 
are used for these purposes, but although computerised filing and 
annotation systems offer convenience, they are unlikely to supplant 
paper copies entirely.
When you copy or download any resource, you must take account of 
copyright law. This ‘gives the creators of a wide range of material, such 
as literature, art, music and recording, film and broadcasts, economic 
rights’ (UK Intellectual Property Office, www.ipo.gov.uk). Copyright 
infringement is regarded as equivalent to stealing, and legal rights 
are sometimes jealously guarded by companies with the resources to 
prosecute. 
In the UK, authors have literary copyright over their material for their 
life, and their estate has copyright for a further 70 years. Publishers 
have typographical copyright for 25 years. This is why the copyright 
symbol © is usually accompanied by a date and the owner’s name. For 
example, you’ll find this information on the publication details page at 
the start of a book (as in this one).
You will be at risk of breaking the law if you copy (for example, 
photocopy, digitally scan or print out) material to which someone else 
owns the copyright, unless you have their express permission, or unless 
the amount you copy falls within the limits accepted for ‘fair dealing’.
‘Educational copying’, for non-commercial private study or research, is 
sometimes allowed by publishers (they will state this on the material, 
and may allow multiple copies to be made). Otherwise, for single 
copies for private study or research, you should only copy what would 
fall under the ‘fair dealing’ provision, for which there is no precise 
definition in law.
Established practice suggests that you should photocopy no more than 
5 per cent of the work involved, or:
●
●one chapter of a book;
Use of the copyright symbol
The © symbol indicates that someone is drawing your attention to the 
fact that something is copyright. However, even if © does not appear, 
the material may still be copyright.
i
9  Organising research materials 
95
These limits apply to single copies – you can’t take multiple copies of 
any of the above items, or pass on a single copy for multiple copying 
to someone else, who may be in ignorance of the source or of specific 
or general copyright issues.
In legal terms, it doesn’t matter whether you paid for the source or not: 
copyright is infringed when the whole or a substantial part is copied 
without permission – and ‘substantial’ here can mean a qualitatively 
significant section even if this is a small part of the whole.
●
●one article per volume of an academic journal;
●
●20 per cent (to a maximum of 20 pages) of a short book;
●
●one poem or short story (to a maximum of 10 pages) from an 
anthology;
●
●one separate illustration or map up to A4 size (note: illustrations that 
are parts of articles and chapters may be included in the allowances 
noted above);
●
●short excerpts of musical works – not whole works or movements 
(note: copying of any kind of public performance is not allowed 
without permission).
Private study or research
This means exactly what it says: the limits discussed here apply to that 
use and not to commercial or other uses, such as photocopying an 
amusing article for your friends.
i
Approved copyright exceptions
Some copying for academic purposes may be licensed by the 
Copyright Licensing Agency (CLA) on behalf of authors. Other 
electronically distributed material may be licensed through the HERON 
(Higher Education Resources On-Demand) scheme. In these cases you 
may be able to copy or print out more than the amounts listed in the 
text, including multiple copies. 
Your university may also ‘buy in’ to licensing schemes, such as those 
offered by the NLA (Newspaper Licensing Agency) and the Performing 
Rights Society. As these can refer to very specific sources, consult 
your library’s staff if in doubt.
?
96 
Key PhD research skills
The same rules apply to printing or copying material on the Web 
unless the author gives explicit written clearance. This applies to 
copying images as well as text from the Internet, although a number 
of sites do offer copyright-free images. A statement on the author’s 
position on copying may appear on the home page or a page linked 
directly from it.
Making research notes from sources
Whether you have a copy or not, keeping a record of the content 
and your interpretation of source material is essential. You will have 
developed note-making skills during your undergraduate studies 
and will probably have a preferred method for doing this that suits 
your learning preference (for further information see the VARK online 
resource, Ch 5). If you feel that now is the time to experiment with 
different forms of note making, a range of techniques is discussed in 
McMillan and Weyers (2012).
Complexity of copyright law
Note that the material in this chapter is a summary, and much 
may depend on individual circumstances. Note also that copyright 
legislation is the subject of international cooperation and is supported 
by a network of international agreements.
i
Why are you taking notes?
The reason why you are taking the notes may be to:
■
■frame an overview of the subject;
■
■record a sequence or process;
■
■enable you to analyse a problem;
■
■extract the logic of an argument;
■
■compare different viewpoints;
■
■borrow quotes (with suitable citation – Ch 20);
■
■add your own commentary on the text, perhaps by linking key points 
with what has been discussed in a lecture or tutorial.
The style, format and detail of your notes will depend on the purpose.
?
9  Organising research materials 
97
One of the pitfalls of making notes is that these can become too 
detailed. To avoid this, the trick is to:
1	 identify your purpose;
2	 scan the section to be read;
3	 establish the writer’s purpose, for example:
–– a narrative of events or process
–– a statement of facts
–– an explanation of reasoning
–– an analysis of an issue, problem or situation
–– a logical argument
–– a critique of an argument;
4	 work out their ‘take’ on the subject, and how this relates to your 
purpose;
5	 make minimal notes that are sufficient for you to summarise the 
above, using an appropriate note-making style and layout.
When making notes, always write down your sources. As discussed in 
detail in Chapter 20, you may risk plagiarising if you cannot recall or 
find the source of a piece of text. Avoid this by getting into the habit 
of making a careful note of the source on the same piece of paper that 
you used to summarise or copy it out. 
Essentials of note-making
1	 On all notes record the source, namely:
–– Author(s) surname(s) + initials
–– Title in full with chapter/journal title and pages
–– Date of publication
–– Publisher + place of publication
	
You will need this information to enable you to cite the source if you 
decide to use it in your own writing (Ch 20).
2	 Add the date(s) you made the notes as this may prove helpful in 
back-tracking for information.
3	 Personalise your notes by using, for example, underlining, 
highlighting, colour coding and so on. This will help to make your 
notes meaningful in six days, weeks or months.
✔
98 
Key PhD research skills
Always use quote marks (‘. . .’) when taking such notes verbatim from 
texts and other materials, to indicate that what you have written down 
is a direct copy of the words used, as you may forget this at a later 
time. You do not need to quote directly in the final version of your 
work, but if you paraphrase you should still cite the source.
Themed research notes
The volume of material that postgraduates have to handle means that 
most try to introduce some short-cuts. This suggestion helps avoid 
the frustration of ‘losing’ a particular note or idea. The method involves 
creating a file for a particular aspect of your research and within that 
single document creating a template in the form of a small table as 
illustrated in Figure 9.1(a).
As this mini-database develops, you will have a composite record 
of related material that you will be able to use when you reach that 
particular aspect in your writing. Figure 9.1(b) shows how this might 
look as the record of notes grows. You might choose to handwrite such 
notes, but the time spent typing them up will enable the details to be 
searched, copied and pasted. Either printed out as hard copy or viewed 
on the screen, they can be shuffled around to help group and visualise 
connections between sources. The key advantage is that you have all 
the related material in easily readable format in one place.
Indexing and organising your resources and 
research notes
Research projects have the potential to generate a considerable 
quantity of source material either in hard copy or in printouts/
photocopies, in addition to e-sourced material read online. This 
presents three related problems:
1	 How to file and organise the hard copies you have obtained (usually 
by photocopying, but sometimes directly from an author).
2	 How to cross-reference your notes on the material, so you refer to 
the right references in the right places.
3	 How to create a database that allows you to create a reference list 
of all the references you cite.
9  Organising research materials 
99
Figure 9.1  Examples of layout of entry for composite note-making 
strategy: (a) template; (b) examples of the template in use.
Theme
Publication details
Direct quotation or 
paraphrase
Importance/relevance/
Anticipated location in thesis 
Personal appraisal
(a)
Disadvantages of eco systems in house building
Green, A. 2012. The EcoHouse. London: Earth Press. 
“Eco measures will only work if the home owner understands 
the underlying principles of the materials and services 
incorporated in the building.” Page 59.
Need for eco education for home owners. Could be included in 
disadvantages. Either in intro. or critique chapter.
Useful as recognition that as eco homes become more the 
norm, their efficacy has to be matched with owner’s 
knowledge.
Theme
Publication details
Direct quotation or 
paraphrase [with page 
reference]
Importance/relevance/
Anticipated location in thesis 
Personal appraisal
(b)
Source 1
Disadvantages of eco systems in house building
Brown, B. 2010. Building green. Ely: Fens Press. 
“The builder has to engage with the eco concept for 
successful project completion.” Page 25.
Need for eco education of trades involved in construction. 
Could be included in disadvantages. Either in intro or critique 
chapter.
Supports idea of need for commitment from all stakeholders 
in the project.
Theme
Publication details
Direct quotation or 
paraphrase [with page 
reference]
Importance/relevance/
Anticipated location in thesis 
Personal appraisal
Source 2
Disadvantages of eco systems in house building
Black, H. 2009. Financing green-ness. Dublin: Green Press. 
“Financial houses need to be included in ‘green education’ so 
that mortgage applications for eco homes can be 
sympathetically appraised.” Page 95.
Need for eco education for business. Could be included in 
disadvantages. Either in intro or critique chapter.
Useful as recognition that as eco homes become more the 
norm, their efficacy has to be matched with owner’s 
knowledge.
Theme
Publication details
Direct quotation or 
paraphrase [with page 
reference]
Importance/relevance/
Anticipated location in thesis 
Personal appraisal
Source 3
100 
Key PhD research skills
Hard-copy approaches
One simple ‘low-tech’ method for storing hard copy and related 
reference information involves creating a record card for each item. 
Each hard copy document is given an ‘accession’ number in sequence 
(1, 2, 3. . .) and is stored sequentially in boxes or files so that frequent 
reorganisation is not required as your collection expands. Each 
document is matched by an index card of the same number. On the 
card you write essential bibliographical information and any comments 
you want particularly to note, for example, a composite note as 
discussed above. You then store the cards in alphabetical order by 
author. Thus, if you recall that an article written by E. Burke (2003) is 
relevant, you can find the card, identify the accession number and 
immediately retrieve the relevant document from your filing system.
This method will help you become more familiar with your material and 
its content. The accession numbers or the record cards themselves 
can be used as a way of grouping references in different topic areas, 
and the cards can easily be re-ordered alphabetically when writing 
up your reference list. This system is labour-intensive and has the 
disadvantage that the final list will probably have to be typed up as a 
single exercise; nevertheless, it might suit some learning styles better 
than the computer-based models described below.
Personalised computer-based approaches
Following the ‘accession number’ approach in the hard-copy model, 
an alternative, computer-based system involves creating a file folder 
in which you insert sub-folders arranged by themes or aspects 
within your work. In each sub-folder (theme) you create a word 
processor file that contains a simple table such as that of Fig. 9.1(a) 
in which you list bibliographical references of each source in order 
of ‘accession number’ and record alongside notes of your thoughts 
about the content and findings in relation to your own study. Some 
people find that a spreadsheet rather than a Word table is more 
suited to this purpose. Within the same folder, you might wish to 
keep any detailed quotes that you have taken directly from source 
material; any downloaded materials on that theme; and any pieces of 
ongoing written work. When creating a reference list, the reference 
information can then be cut and pasted into a word processor file 
and sorted alphabetically or numerically, eliminating any duplication. 
This method has the advantage of allowing on-screen manipulation of 
bibliographical data and interpretations.
9  Organising research materials 
101
Both the hard-copy and computer-based methods have the 
disadvantage of requiring extensive cross-checking and proof-reading 
of the final list to ensure that all the conventions of the referencing 
method are applied consistently.
Using commercial bibliographic software
This is another possibility, as these systems offer great potential for 
organising citations within your text and for preparing your reference 
list. In order to use the systems, appropriate bibliographic data 
must first be entered into fields within a database (you can also 
search online databases and import reference data from these). The 
database can then be searched and customised in the style of your 
choice to create a consistent reference list for your thesis or for any 
papers you may write. Research notes, as described above, can also 
be added.
One advantage is that the database system will help you to avoid 
punctuation inaccuracies in the final version. In addition, most 
packages offer the functions of inserting citations according to 
different referencing methods and output can be altered to suit 
different requirements for different publication contexts. However, on 
the negative side, you have to consider whether the effort taken to 
learn how to use whichever package is available to you (for example, 
EndNote, Reference Manager or ProCite) is worthwhile in a research 
project that may have relatively few references. If you decide to use this 
type of software, it is worth attending a training course if one is offered 
by university staff or seeking guidance online. Be sure that servicing 
your database doesn’t become an end in itself.
Chapter 20 covers key aspects of documenting sources and 
appropriate ways of recording and citing quotations and ideas taken 
from them.
The golden rules of effective note-making
Whatever method of making notes you choose, ensure that the 
information is:
■
■easily recorded;
■
■easily sourced;
■
■easily read;
■
■easily understood long after you’ve made the notes.
✔
102 
Key PhD research skills
Action points
9.1  Next time you are in the library, read the documentation 
about photocopying often displayed beside the photocopiers. 
This will provide detailed information about current legislation and 
any local exceptions. The library website may also be a useful 
source of information, for example, about copyright-licensed 
material.
9.2  Review how you currently store information. If this is in 
note form, consider storing like with like, for example, in folders by 
theme or topic. If you have print-out material, consider whether you 
need to create box file storage that groups materials again by topic 
and theme. Although this may not seem important at early stages 
of the research process, at later stages these decisions could have 
time and labour-saving implications.
9.3  Review your note-making technique. Consider how this will 
come into play when you start pooling your sources and writing 
thesis material about them. Will your current methods be fit-for-
purpose? Perhaps the themed notes method might be a more 
appropriate way of synthesising and collating related information. 
When your ideas become blocked or you are not sure of the next 
step, then reading over these composite notes may help to open 
up new strands of thinking or writing.
Interactions with 
others during a
research programme
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
105
How to make the most of 
this important collaboration
Successful postgraduate–
supervisor relationships
10
The relationship between a postgraduate student and their 
supervisor is vital to the success of the research activity from both 
points of view. The student wants to obtain the degree and the 
supervisor has an interest in ensuring that this happens. Thus, it is 
essential that both parties work together to ensure that their mutual 
and individual aims are achieved.
Key topics
➔
➔The self-directed nature of postgraduate research
➔
➔The duties and responsibilities of a supervisor
➔
➔The pressures on your supervisor’s time
➔
➔Supervisor and student personalities
➔
➔The supervisor’s role in writing up your work
Arriving at a good working relationship with your supervisor is a vital 
component of successful postgraduate research. In many cases, this 
association develops easily through the various phases of the degree 
and lasts well beyond into later employment. In others, there may be a 
mismatch between the expectations of either party and problems may 
ensue. This chapter aims to clarify the ground-rules for supervised research 
and to provide suggestions for remedying any difficulties that arise.
The self-directed nature of postgraduate 
research
Postgraduate study is not intended to be an exercise in the student 
awaiting direction on the one hand and the supervisor dispensing 
106 
Interactions with others during a research programme
instructions on the other. The student has to learn to exercise a degree 
of autonomy in a number of ways. This involves recognising a number 
of important responsibilities, as discussed in Chapter 2.
Firstly, you will need to take responsibility for your own research 
by planning your time and pacing your work so that you achieve 
objectives on time (Ch 6). However, autonomous work in itself is 
not enough. It must be supported by independent thought. You are 
expected to be able to produce fresh ideas which you can develop 
and defend in discussion (Chs 17 and 18). Although you will probably 
start by ‘working to instruction’, increasingly you should become the 
expert and it should be you, rather than your supervisor, who drives the 
research.
Your period of postgraduate study will involve the development of 
a number of personal transferable skills, for example, advanced 
presentation techniques. It is your responsibility to explore the 
means of developing such skills. For instance, this might involve 
using appropriate software tools to help you present your work 
competently at conference level. Most universities provide a series 
of workshops to assist with this and other skills development 
(Ch 5).
Writing skills are vital to your progress and ultimate success (Chs 25 
and 26). Many post-docs and lecturers will readily admit that their 
postgraduate experience led to major improvements in their abilities in 
this area and that their supervisor’s guidance was a major influence on 
their progress. You should take a proactive role by reacting positively 
to feedback (Ch 16), adapting your writing to the style adopted in your 
subject area, and learning new writing skills from relevant courses (Ch 
5), writing manuals and reference works (Ch 26).
Key expectations of supervisors
These are the main qualities a supervisor will expect you to display:
■
■honesty;
■
■autonomy (once trained);
■
■hard work;
■
■ability to write effectively;
■
■openness about problems.
i
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
107
The duties and responsibilities of a supervisor
For you, as a postgraduate student, your supervisor will probably be 
the most important person in your working life. He or she will be in a 
position to help you in many ways.
Before you even started your research, your supervisor’s role in your 
work may have included some of the following:
●
●Obtaining the funding that will support your studies. This might 
have included negotiating a studentship for your position from a 
departmental quota or applying for a grant that will pay your stipend 
or salary and other expenses.
●
●Creating or assembling the components of your working 
environment. In the sciences, for example, your supervisor may have 
obtained vital equipment through research grants. In other areas, 
they may have accumulated vital resources or evidence that will 
underpin your work, such as old books, manuscripts and papers. 
They may have had to negotiate desk and/or lab space for you and 
the raw materials you will need to conduct your study. 
●
●Providing or bringing together the ideas that will form the basis 
of your work. In some cases, these may be defined in great detail 
as part of a research grant proposal (for example, proposing 
hypotheses and laying out clear milestones). In others, they may 
simply be a general area of study and associated intellectual 
framework, encapsulated perhaps in a project title and single 
descriptive paragraph, that you will be expected to develop in a 
detailed proposal or plan (Ch 3).
When you begin as a researcher, your supervisor’s role will probably 
include some of the following:
●
●helping you settle down at the University when you first arrive – 
for example, by providing guidance on finding accommodation, 
matriculation, and finding your way around your department and 
important facilities such as the library;
●
●supporting you in developing appropriate skills to pursue your work 
– these may include, for example, guidance on how to use software, 
or a particular set of analytical techniques, or tips on assembling a 
reference collection (Ch 20);
108 
Interactions with others during a research programme
●
●assisting you to develop the research project from the initial ideas, 
perhaps helping you to refine hypotheses or ideas on the basis of 
your early results or findings (Ch 17);
●
●putting you in touch with those locally or at a distance who can help 
with your studies or contribute to your work.
Once your work gets going, your supervisor’s role may include some of 
the following:
●
●ensuring that you work safely at all times;
●
●being available for discussions and meetings;
●
●providing guidance on obtaining the resources you need to carry out 
your studies;
●
●providing pastoral care, if required, or to put you in touch with those 
who can help you;
●
●enthusing you about the work in hand and helping you get through 
the inevitable low points when everything seems to be going wrong 
(Ch 11); 
●
●making sure your work does not end up in a dead end and that you 
do have something to write up when you finish;
●
●keeping you informed about the various deadlines within your study 
periods (such as those for writing reports);
●
●helping you interpret the rules and regulations and Codes of Practice 
that govern your studies;
●
●helping you to analyse your findings;
●
●giving you feedback on your research and the related written work 
you produce;
●
●helping you publish your findings or to disseminate them via posters, 
seminars or conference presentations;
●
●providing guidance about the viva voce exam and other assessments. 
Always go to meetings with your supervisor 
well-prepared 
Have all your materials well organised and neatly written up. Create 
a list of discussion points beforehand, and if you have questions, 
be prepared to show you have made some attempt to answer these 
independently.
✔
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
109
When you have finished your PhD studies, your supervisor may:
●
●give you guidance on possible careers and to help you find a job 
after your work is finished (Ch 33);
●
●write references for you when you apply for jobs (but you should 
always inform your supervisor about jobs you are applying for and 
provide them with an up-to-date CV). 
The pressures on your supervisor’s time
All of the above duties and responsibilities of a supervisor take time, 
and it is important to realise that your supervisor undertakes these 
duties while contemporaneously and sometimes simultaneously 
carrying out a wide range of other tasks. Typically, these could include:
●
●carrying out his or her own research;
●
●working with other postgrads, post-docs and technical staff;
●
●teaching undergraduates;
●
●marking exam papers or conducting oral exams;
●
●carrying out departmental administration;
●
●attending University committees and working groups;
●
●writing up other research work;
●
●refereeing others’ work;
●
●applying for research funding;
●
●going to seminars and conferences;
●
●(if they are lucky) having some sort of private life.
Key responsibilities of supervisors
The key responsibilities of a supervisor are to:
■
■ensure you work safely;
■
■provide adequate resources and facilities for your work, including 
training in necessary skills;
■
■give you positive feedback on results and ideas and maintain your 
enthusiasm;
■
■provide help when things go awry;
■
■monitor your progress and help you to write up on time;
■
■support your onward progress when your studies are finished.
i
110 
Interactions with others during a research programme
This means you should make sure your notion of the amount of time 
your supervisor can spend with you is realistic. After all, postgraduate 
study is primarily about learning to work and think on your own. 
That does not mean that your supervisor can ignore you. It might 
mean, for example, that you will have to be patient in waiting for 
feedback on drafts of your work. Normally, you will have a good idea 
of the context in which your supervisor is working and can adjust your 
expectations accordingly. Just before a lecture might not be a good 
time to ask for a considered opinion on your work; in the run-up to an 
important conference, all of your supervisor’s attention might be on 
putting together his/her contribution; and in vacation periods, he/she 
may go away from the lab or office for several weeks.
Time your approaches to your supervisor
Be sensitive to your supervisor’s working patterns and to any one-off 
tasks they are doing. If possible, suggest diary dates in advance.
✔
Supervisor and student personalities
Although there may be times when you will doubt it, supervisors are 
human beings and hence are fallible. They may be near-geniuses and 
have heroic research achievements to their name but at the same time 
they may have difficulty empathising with students or seem rather abrupt. 
In the majority of cases, this simply requires adjustment on the part of the 
postgraduate student. Table 10.1 lists some supervisor types, the sorts of 
qualities they may display and some strategies for accommodating these.
While you will inevitably focus on your supervisor’s traits, he or she will 
also have a view on your personality. The focus may be on qualities he 
or she is pleased to see, such as being:
●
●hard working;
●
●punctual;
●
●focused;
●
●technically adept;
●
●intellectually bright.
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
111
A supervisor will probably not want to deal with personal matters 
extraneous to the research itself. Examples might include: lack 
of motivation; being homesick; financial problems or issues with 
relationships. Nevertheless, because these issues may have a direct 
effect on your progress, you should explain your feelings frankly – but 
don’t expect a lot more than sympathy in return. Your supervisor is not 
a social worker and his or her attention will nearly always be directed 
to the outcomes of your work. If you need further help, consult the 
relevant student services unit directly.
There will inevitably be ups and downs in the student–supervisor 
relationship (Ch 11). What is important is to recognise that you share a 
common goal and may need to compromise a little to achieve it.
What should I do if I have more than one supervisor 
and they give me conflicting advice?
This is a difficult situation, and one that can only really be resolved by 
discussion with all parties present. You should confront an issue of this 
kind as soon as possible as it could lead to huge problems nearer to 
submission. If things are not resolved easily, it might be a good idea 
to have confidential chat with the head of department or postgraduate 
dean (or equivalent).
?
What should you do if you do not feel your 
supervisor is giving you enough of their time?
1	 Compare notes with others in your department to see whether you 
are relatively disadvantaged in this way.
2	 Try to be more proactive in setting up meetings, perhaps by helping 
to set up diary dates or a regular meeting slot.
3	 Raise the matter informally at your progress monitoring meetings.
4	 As a last resort, you might wish to consult the chairperson of the 
department’s research committee, the head of department or your 
faculty dean. Many of these people will be quite happy to have 
discussions on an informal basis and you can trust them to respect 
confidentiality if agreed beforehand.
?
112 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Table 10.1  Some supervisor types with likely approach to your research, typical supervision styles and suggested strategies 
for working successfully with them. Note that, as with any stereotyping exercise, the real situation will be more complex: a specific 
supervisor may demonstrate more than one trait and/or may change between modes at different points in the academic year.
Supervisor type, approach to your research and supervision style
Suggested strategies for successful relationships
The big hitter – an established researcher with a considerable 
reputation and track record. Able to pick the very best PG students. 
Will have exceptionally high expectations for work-rate and results. 
Your research project is likely to fit into a well-established programme 
of work, possibly as part of an extended group. Unlikely to be able to 
devote much time for day-to-day supervision and may delegate this 
to other team members.
• Ensure that your commitment and hard work are evident
• Ensure that you stick to your plan and avoid deviation from it as this 
will not be appreciated
• Present the key points from your work well in meetings by taking 
along a prepared a list of queries. Meetings may be brief and feel 
more like an interview than a discussion, so ensure that you make 
best use of them
• Be prepared to snatch discussions at every opportunity
• Seek detailed feedback on your written drafts from others as your 
supervisor may not have time or feel it is their role to give detailed 
feedback on grammar, style and word use
The overworked academic – has many calls on his/her time: 
teaching, administration and, if lucky, research. Probably keen 
on your project but frustrated by inability to offer you as much 
supervision as he/she would like. Variable engagement with you, and 
especially poor during crunch times of academic year, e.g. when 
teaching or examining. 
• Make good use of ‘times of plenty’ and develop strategies for times 
when contact is infrequent
• Expect meetings to be re-scheduled or cancelled at busy times 
due to conflicting tasks. Try to timetable meetings within your 
supervisor’s diary 
• Expect long waits for drafts to be returned, possibly with variable 
quality of feedback
The theorist – your project could be part of his/her grand plan and 
your results could be expected to uphold a pet theory. Will not like 
any results or conclusions that conflict with his/her predictions. May 
tend to over-supervise as above.
• Make sure you are on very safe ground if you disagree on key issues
• Be prepared for conflict with opposing research groups at 
conferences and during oral exam
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
113
The at-a-distance manager – a supervisor primarily by name only, 
appointed mainly so you can fulfil university or external requirements. 
May not be interested in your project or be able to contribute much. 
Meetings will be infrequent and you will largely be expected to work 
by yourself.
• Understand your situation from the start and lower your expectations
• Try to make use of whatever alternative support networks are 
present in the department or university
• Press for meetings and discussions and be prepared to ask 
questions or to be referred to someone who can help
• Be prepared to make contact with outside experts, e.g. by email
The one who’d rather be doing your research – your project is a 
pet topic but time and status no longer allow him/her to carry out 
the work. May over-supervise at times – interfering in your work, 
expecting impossibly high standards for someone of your experience, 
dictating approaches and expressing irritation if you do things in your 
own way. May take over when work due for publication.
• Try your best to work to his/her standards
• If you disagree with the expected approach, be prepared to present a 
well-argued case for your preferred method
• Don’t come to rely entirely on his/her analysis and interpretation 
– you must be able to defend your own thoughts under oral 
examination
The father/mother figure – often an experienced and noted 
researcher in the twilight of his/her career. Relishes opportunity to 
pass on wisdom in a supportive, friendly manner. Approaches may 
be slightly outdated but will generally be sound.
• Make sure any information provided is up-to-date – supervisor may 
be a little stuck in the past
• Keep up to date with current literature in your area
• Relish the opportunity to learn from all his/her wisdom and 
knowledge – ‘old’ does not necessarily mean ‘out-of-date’
The technocrat – has built current career on knowledge of a 
specific approach, technique or instrument. May expect you to be as 
methods-savvy as him/her. Methods may churn out results but may 
be limited in applicability.
• Be aware of other approaches and try to fit these into your work to 
‘round’ your experience
• Take advantage of results-churning by writing plentiful papers – the 
window of opportunity may be narrow
• Try to gain a wider knowledge of the topic beyond the immediate 
methodology
Continued overleaf
114 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Supervisor type, approach to your research and supervision style
Suggested strategies for successful relationships
The would-be superstar – highly ambitious, and your work may be 
part of his/her grand plan for advancement. Likely to be impatient 
and will expect results yesterday. 
• Work hard – you may be able to coat-tail on his/her upwards 
trajectory, possibly moving between institutions along the way
• Resist tendency for quality to suffer in the demand for instant results 
– keep your own standards as far as possible, as you will be judged 
by them
The introvert – a talented researcher but one who lacks people-
skills. May have succeeded so far as a loner and may be a reluctant 
supervisor (see below). Not good in meetings or in passing on 
wisdom and personal advice.
• Work at making him/her comfortable in discussion
• Be prepared to gain information in short sharp meetings
The slightly reluctant supervisor – may have been pressed into 
having you as a student, may resent the commitment of time involved 
and may not be entirely interested in your research topic.
• Try to be as pleasant as possible and to minimise his or her workload 
by preparing well
• Try your best to enthuse him or her in your subject material
• Try to find other sources of advice and encouragement
The novice – new to this task. Likely to be keen, friendly and 
interested. Research field may be fresh but uncertain. May not have 
developed the required person-skills for supervision and may be 
unfamiliar with procedures, rules and regulations. May be paired with 
a more senior co-supervisor.
• Take advantage of the enthusiasm a novice supervisor can provide 
• Capitalise also on other sources of advice and encouragement: most 
universities will arrange for co-supervisors for staff unfamiliar with 
this role
• Be prepared to double-check on procedures and timing
• Recognise that, although the age differential between you and 
this type of supervisor may be narrow, you need to keep a certain 
amount of distance and avoid over-familiarity
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
115
The supervisor’s role in writing up your work
Communicating your work in writing is a vital part of any postgraduate 
study programme (Ch 25) and you can expect your supervisor to 
take a keen interest in this. In all probability, you will gain mutually 
from this writing by enhancing your respective CVs and reputations. 
Perhaps because of the importance of placing your work on record, 
the interactions that take place during this process often involve some 
thorny discussions and it is important that you understand the reasons 
for these.
While you will be asked to sign a statement to the effect that your 
thesis is all ‘your own work’, there is necessarily an element of 
collaboration between student and supervisor. You will be expected 
to write your thesis, taking into account feedback provided by your 
supervisor. The viva voce exam is designed to ensure that the thesis 
is your own work, and that you fully understand what has been 
written. Despite the need for autonomy, you should have a legitimate 
expectation of guidance and constructive criticism concerning your 
efforts. 
However, your supervisor may insist on including material you do 
not agree with or insist on removing material you think is important. 
Before getting too annoyed with this, do bear in mind your supervisor’s 
experience and wisdom. He or she may well have good reasons for 
adopting a particular stance – perhaps sensitivity to the ‘political’ 
aspects of your research, or knowledge of the key figures working 
within your research area (that is, potential examiners or referees) and 
how they might react to what you propose to write.
How much will your supervisor help you in writing  
up?
Misunderstandings on this issue can act as a major source of 
dissatisfaction. International students particularly, who may be paying 
large fees for the postgraduate experience, might expect that this is 
in part a payment for help with writing up. It isn’t, normally. Moreover, 
most supervisors will be unable to have the time to help with putting 
your ideas into scholarly English. For this, you may need to consult a 
specialist writing centre in your university.
?
116 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Your supervisor may feel that aspects of your work are not ready for 
publication. He or she may insist that you repeat your procedures 
several times; or that you analyse it in greater depth. Again, you should 
respect their wisdom in such matters. If your results are important or 
go against other work it might be extremely important for have a high 
level of confidence before going public. Do not feel insulted if another 
person in the research group is asked to repeat your work; again, this 
is part of the double-checking that may be vital before publication. 
Your supervisor will be well aware of the rigour with which referees will 
look at your work and the sorts of comments they are likely to make 
and may wish to forestall most of these.
Expect some differences to emerge in your writing styles. Your 
supervisor will probably have had a different type of schooling/training 
from you and therefore may write in a different way – perhaps one that 
you feel is overly formal and pedantic. Almost certainly, however, your 
supervisor will have the same or a better qualification that the one you 
aspire to and a greater experience of writing in academic style. Listen 
and learn. Writing your thesis may be the single most important period 
in your life as far as learning about English is concerned. There is much 
to be gained from sensible discussions about the issues that arise. 
It is not uncommon, for example, for there to be lengthy supervisor–
student discussions on the use of commas or sentence or paragraph 
Deciding on authorship of published work
Authorship details can be a source of disappointment or resentment. It 
is best to discuss and decide such matters before anything gets written 
up for submission to a journal.
■
■In the Sciences, it is the norm for any papers arising from ‘your’ 
work to be jointly authored. It is widely accepted that the supervisor 
‘co-owns’ the intellectual property that you develop in partnership. 
■
■In the Arts, it is usual for postgraduate students’ publications not 
to carry the supervisor’s name as an author, although, of course, 
their contribution should be acknowledged in the appropriate 
thesis section.
There will probably be ‘local rules’ for whose name will go first on any 
joint paper. In some cases, this is decided alphabetically. In others, 
the supervisor’s name usually goes first, whilst elsewhere it will appear 
last, indicating seniority. In some research groups, the pattern will be to 
alternate names in a sequence of papers.
✔
10  Successful postgraduate–supervisor relationships 
117
construction. Even if you disagree with the style being proposed, you 
should go along with what your supervisor advises, and accept that 
learning to write in different ways is an important skill to emerge from 
your studies.
Action points
10.1  Analyse how your personality will interact with that of 
your supervisor. Decide what type your supervisor appears to be 
(Table 10.1). Reflect on how you might forestall or respond to the 
challenges you feel might emerge in your continuing relationship 
and plan the tactics necessary for this. What kind of postgraduate 
student are you? Imagine a classification of postgraduate student 
types that supervisors might develop: what traits do you display 
that they may like or dislike?
10.2  Think about the skills you need to develop to become 
more independent from your supervisor. Look at the 
opportunities available to you for improving the skills of an 
autonomous researcher, and sign up for any relevant training 
sessions or workshops in your institution.
10.3  Investigate the regulatory framework surrounding 
student–supervisor relationships. This will be published within 
a ‘code of practice for supervised research’ or similar within your 
institution. The aim in doing so is not to become a ‘barrack-room 
lawyer’, but to clarify for yourself the realistic expectations for both 
parties.
118 
Interactions with others during a research programme
11
How to respond positively 
to events and feelings
Dealing with the highs and 
lows of being a postgraduate
Your mood is likely to oscillate while researching for a PhD. This 
is common and is a function of the difficulty and amount of work 
expected, which inevitably impact on health, relationships and 
feelings. Everybody feels stress differently. It is important to 
recognise likely causes and to consider potential solutions.
Key topics
➔
➔What to expect
➔
➔Responding positively to stress
This chapter aims to help by alerting you to possible reasons for 
highs and lows in your PhD studies. You will then be in a position to 
recognise what might be happening and your feelings about this, and 
in some cases to forestall or accommodate the underlying issues. This 
applies as much to the highs as the lows – and it is sometimes dealing 
with the contrasts of life that leads to tension, stress and depression.
Personal feelings are individual
We all respond in different ways to the challenges of life, and so it is 
with those of PhD research. For example, one person might find a 
certain aspect stressful, such as delivering a seminar, while another 
would thrive on this task. The corollary is that solutions are also 
personal, and you will have to work to find a way to deal with your 
state of mind at any given time.
✔
11  Dealing with the highs and lows of being a postgraduate 
119
What to expect
One aspect that every PhD student must be fully prepared for is 
sustained and intensive work. At times this will seem like sheer hard 
labour and it will frequently involve a degree of tedium. However, no 
prize worth earning is easily gained, and this applies also to the results 
of research: if the central question were easy to answer, someone 
would already have done so. The secret, if there is one, is to be ready 
for this effort and to spread out the work as evenly as possible rather 
than creating overload in the final stages. Good time management and 
planning (Ch 6) will be essential.
Nearly all postgraduate students experience up and downs during the 
three or more years in which they are researching for their PhD. In other 
words, if you feel particularly low at any point, you will not be alone – it 
is almost part of the rite of passage for this qualification. The highs 
of PhD study, however, are well worth waiting for, as they will involve 
some of the most rewarding academic experiences you will ever have.
Highs
The highs of PhD study are intense and recognising this is probably 
why you signed up for the degree. The ultimate achievement of your 
period of postgraduate study will be walking up to receive your degree 
at the graduation ceremony. This is the vision to keep in mind when the 
going gets tough. However, there will be many other highs along the 
way that should sustain you during this lengthy period of study. Some 
examples might include:
●
●Gaining good feedback from meetings. If your supervisor or progress 
monitoring committee members are supportive, this can give you a 
welcome boost. You may increase the value of the experience if you go 
into such meetings well prepared (Chs 10 and 16), and perhaps with a 
series of queries, rather than attending with a passive outlook,
●
●Obtaining an excellent piece of data or making a breakthrough in 
understanding. With good fortune and effort, such events will occur 
relatively frequently. You will probably feel an urge to share these 
moments. However, don’t be surprised if your enthusiasm leaves 
others somewhat bewildered; this will probably be because they 
don’t understand the technical significance of your finding.
●
●Finding an important new reference or information source. Sourcing 
new papers that are relevant can be extremely helpful to the 
120 
Interactions with others during a research programme
progress of your work (although they can sometimes present a 
challenge if the results or ideas disagree with your own). This will 
usually give a boost to your efforts.
●
●Taking part in creative discussions. A ‘meeting of minds’ can occur 
with your fellow students, a supervisor, a colleague or a fellow 
researcher. This can lead to breakthroughs in understanding and 
the generation of new ideas. Take full advantage of the ‘buzz’ that 
follows such meetings by writing down your immediate thoughts and 
reactions as soon as possible.
●
●Delivering your first seminar or paper. This will probably feel stressful 
in the run-up to presentation, but after the event, you will nearly 
always have a feeling of elation. Aim to capitalise on the greater 
insight and understanding you may have after explaining your topic 
to others. Learn from any questions that are posed.
●
●Completing your write-up. Submitting your thesis to the relevant 
office will be a great moment. It will be the culmination of months of 
single-minded effort, and the initial elation may be followed by slight 
deflation. Remember to start preparing for your viva soon after this 
point. When reading through your thesis, do not be depressed by 
any errors you find. Everyone makes some mistakes. Note these and 
present them at the viva.
●
●Having a successful outcome from your viva. The oral exam is 
without doubt a stressful experience for many, but it needn’t be if 
you are well prepared and understand what to expect (Ch 31). You 
won’t always know the formal result with certainty, but will usually 
have a very good idea (the chair or external examiner may phrase it 
as ‘we will be making a recommendation. . .’ to the relevant university 
committee). Enjoy the celebration!
●
●Having a research publication accepted. This will mark your 
contribution to the body of knowledge and understanding in your 
area, and should be a very proud moment. It will probably represent 
the culmination of years of work and should be fully savoured.
Keep a reflective diary
If you don’t want to share your feelings with others, share them with 
yourself. Reflect on the positives and negatives and use this written 
formulation of your situation to find greater understanding and to note 
potential solutions where these are required.
✔
11  Dealing with the highs and lows of being a postgraduate 
121
Lows
Low points can occur for a number of reasons. These include:
●
●Lack of progress. This is probably the most frequent reason for 
negative feelings during PhD research, and can probably be 
conquered only by reapplying yourself to the work. It can occur for 
a variety of reasons, depending on the project. Examples could be: 
when an experiment doesn’t work; when you find a reference that 
negates a cherished idea; or when your supervisor doesn’t like what 
you have done. You simply need to dust yourself down and try to 
respond positively.
●
●Lack of confidence. This may be especially acute in the first months 
of research. You will meet others who seem cleverer and more 
proficient, and who seem to come up with results with ease. You 
may even question whether doing a PhD was the right choice for 
you. Gain assurance from your past achievements and the fact that 
others have judged you capable of working at this level. A good 
supervisor will be very supportive if you explain your feelings.
●
●Not meeting your own or others’ high expectations. You may have 
set yourself a high target for the quality of your work and you may 
feel worried that you are not able to meet this. Your supervisor or 
sponsors might also expect high things of you. Accept that there is 
no shame in trying and failing, only in not trying. Remember, your 
thesis doesn’t need to present an Earth-shattering conclusion; and 
that ‘negative results’ can be valuable as part of a bigger picture.
●
●Poor working relationships. These can occur with your supervisor, 
fellow students or other people on whom you depend for progress, 
such as technicians and university officials. Be aware that there 
are always two sides to any story and try to see things from the 
other side. The general advice here is (a) to explain your feelings 
where appropriate, and/or (b) to be twice as nice back in return for 
any slight you may feel. Both strategies often result in a positive 
dividend.
●
●Feeling isolated. You may feel, for example, that you have had 
a lack of supportive contact with your supervisor, or that family 
members do not understand your situation. Talk to them. Talk to 
others. This will help relieve both the symptom and potentially the 
cause.
●
●Deterioration in personal relationships. This may occur because of 
the amount of time you are spending on research or because you 
122 
Interactions with others during a research programme
are tired when you return from your studies. One solution is to ring-
fence time for your significant other(s), possibly by timetabling this 
in your week. Make an effort to show you care and, in discussion, 
focus on the potential rewards to you both from your qualification. 
You’ll return refreshed to your work and those around you will feel 
that their needs are also being recognised.
●
●Hating the writing. Many postgraduates thrive on the research phase 
of a PhD but abhor the writing-up. They may have always disliked 
this aspect of university work or may have a condition like dyslexia 
that makes it particularly tough. The tips in later chapters of this 
book may help with this problem.
The highs and lows of postgraduate study may be played out on a 
longer timescale, but are inevitably more extreme than those of your 
undergraduate days. After all, you have more invested in your PhD 
project – at the end it will seem like an extension of your personality. It 
is by recognising that there is always a cycle of ups and downs, and 
by responding in a positive fashion, you will cope with all the lows and 
move on to success.
Responding positively to stress
Feelings of ‘stress’ represent a way humans have evolved to cope with 
difficult situations, by placing the brain and body under a condition of 
‘high alert’. Understanding these feelings will help you channel them 
so you perform better. Research shows that students perform better 
Break out of your routine if you are feeling low
Perhaps you need to try something new to create a more positive 
feeling. Examples might include:
■
■trying a new method or approach;
■
■reading a different source;
■
■going away, perhaps to a conference or seminar;
■
■speaking to someone with a different perspective;
■
■starting work on a new part of your write-up.
Returning to an old problem thereafter may help you to tackle it with 
renewed enthusiasm.
✔
11  Dealing with the highs and lows of being a postgraduate 
123
What if I feel really, really bad?
For some, the stresses of postgraduate student life are such that 
they consider dropping out or even feel suicidal. Talking about your 
situation is the best way to counteract these feelings. You can do this 
anonymously and/or confidentially through:
■
■The Samaritans (www.samaritans.org.uk);
■
■Nightline (www.nightline.niss.ac.uk);
■
■or through your university’s medical or counselling services (find this 
via www.studentcounselling.org/).
These sources provide contact telephone numbers and 24–7 online 
guidance.
✔
under a certain amount of stress, while too much, or too little, results in 
a weaker outcome. Learning to cope with stress is also a skill that will 
be useful in later life.
Stress means different things to different people and involves a wide 
range of emotions and feelings, so an all-encompassing definition 
is hard to produce. Stress usually involves some form of external 
pressure, resulting in mental or emotional strain, typified by worrying, 
fretting and agonising. Most people feel stressed at some point in 
their lives; equally, it is true that one person’s worrying threat may be 
another person’s stimulating challenge.
Recognising when you are under stress, or likely to be so, is 
important because it allows you to adopt avoidance strategies. 
Common physical symptoms associated with stress include: 
breathing difficulty, comfort eating, diarrhoea, dry mouth, feeling 
of panic, headaches, nausea, shaking hands and sweating. You 
may also show behavioural changes, such as displacement activity, 
irritability, loss of appetite and sleeplessness. All of this is normal and 
something that even outwardly confident people need to work their 
way through.
There are many positive strategies to deal with stress. You may find 
one or more of the following tips appropriate to your situation and/or 
personality. They are in no particular order.
●
●Try not to worry about things over which you have no control. If 
necessary, recognise your personal limitations. Accept life as you 
find it and try to find positive ways around each problem.
124 
Interactions with others during a research programme
●
●Share your problem. Simply talking about your problems 
(‘verbalising’) can help you confront problems, put them in 
perspective or work out a solution, while bottling things up may 
make them worse. You might wish to open out your feelings to 
a friend; talk to a receptive member of academic staff; or seek a 
session with one of your university’s counsellors.
●
●Find out more about what’s bothering you. There may be books 
available about your problem, and there will almost certainly be a 
website somewhere. You may be able to work through a solution 
yourself.
●
●Participate. Seek out ways of getting involved and busy. Join a club 
or society. Ask someone to go along with you, or ask if you can 
accompany someone who is already participating.
●
●Learn to prioritise. If you are stressed because you have too much to 
do, make a list of tasks and put them in order based in urgency and 
importance (Ch 6).
●
●Put things in perspective. Look around you and see how others are 
coping. There is always someone worse off than you are, and some 
people battle through against amazing odds. If they can manage, 
why not you?
●
●Try to forget about your problem. Some problems (not all, 
certainly) simply disappear with time as event move on or 
circumstances change. What was a problem on Friday morning 
may have disappeared by Monday morning. Watch a film for some 
escapism. Get some sleep and see how you feel in the morning. 
Inspiration sometimes comes at the most unexpected times 
(Ch 17).
●
●Try not to be a perfectionist. Accept a lesser standard if this means 
your life is more balanced.
Make an appointment to see a doctor or nurse if 
your problem involves your health
These professionals have seen nearly every problem before and are 
expert at helping to find solutions – or can refer you to someone who 
can. You may need to register with a local practice (ask around to 
see which doctors have a good reputation) or you could use your 
University’s Health Service.
✔
11  Dealing with the highs and lows of being a postgraduate 
125
●
●Confront your problem. OK, so the fact that you have reached 
a particularly tough part of your research is causing you grief. 
Well, start studying or writing! Or if someone is being a pain in 
the neck, tell them so, explaining why their actions are causing 
you problems. Do this calmly but firmly; becoming angry will only 
increase your tension and add to your negative feelings. Similarly, 
running away from a problem merely means you avoid the issue 
rather than facing it and add to your sense of negativity and 
tension.
●
●Do something physical. This is great for removing the symptoms of 
stress. Go for a jog or swim or join a fitness class. This will provide 
an outlet for all the jangled nerves and hormones that your body 
has unconsciously prepared in anticipation of a stressful event.
●
●Don’t be afraid to have a good cry. This is a very natural way to 
relieve stress in some situations – and this applies to everyone.
●
●Learn how to meditate. Try out yoga or other methods of relaxation. 
Some people find this is a great tool for de-stressing.
●
●Change your working pattern. If you are getting into problems 
because of excessive hours at the bench or desk, the remedy is 
obvious. On the other hand, if you can confess to slacking, then 
increase your work rate. Decide to work longer hours or work the 
same hours more effectively. Cut out activities that are preventing 
you from achieving your goals.
●
●Try to manage your time better. If an apparent lack of time is 
causing stress, see if you can organise yourself better (Ch 6).
●
●Recognise that you can’t please everyone. Accept that you may 
have to act selfishly or in a focused way. You may find that others 
are far more accommodating than you thought they would be, if you 
simply explain and apologise.
●
●Treat yourself. Instead of feeling that you are always doing things 
you don’t like, or find hard, or take ages, give yourself a break and 
do something you know you will enjoy. You will probably find that 
when you return to your stressful task you are in a much better 
frame of mind to conquer it.
●
●Make a conscious effort to see problems in a more positive light. 
Regard them as challenges that you can manage and accommodate.
126 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Action points
11.1  If you can, make sure you influence matters. You may 
be able to remove the cause of stress. For example, simply 
speaking to your supervisor about a worrying issue may clear the 
air and result in an agreed path out of a problem. This may require 
determination and assertiveness on your part. Putting the blame 
on others is tempting, but you may have the solution in your own 
hands. For instance, you may think others are being unfriendly, 
when in fact you are expecting them to make all the running, rather 
than being outgoing yourself.
11.2  Use your university’s counselling service if in need of 
help. The mere fact that a counselling service exists should tell 
you something: others have been here before. This service will be 
staffed by professionals, expert in their job. They will make you 
feel at ease; assist you to work out your own solution; and put 
you in contact with others who can help. You can rest assured 
that the service will be fully confidential and independent from the 
academic side of university life.
11.3  Participate fully in the postgraduate culture. Having the 
chance to talk informally about your research can put things in 
perspective, can be invigorating and can help establish friendships 
and networks that will endure long past your study years. Even if 
you are the only student in your department doing a postgraduate 
qualification, there will be institutional opportunities for you to 
meet other PhD students through seminars, training courses and 
through your on-campus Postgraduate Society – in some cases 
there may even be a Postgraduate Society especially for students 
in your discipline (if not, why not start one?). Alternatively, there are 
online postgraduate sites active within the UK and elsewhere. Such 
opportunities should not be seen as time-wasting but a chance to 
meet with others who are facing similar challenges to you.
12  Working in a research team 
127
How to balance research 
cooperation and autonomy
Working in a research team
12
Some PhD students will work on their own, while others will work as 
part of a research team. All students will be members of a wider group 
forming the academic community that is the essence of a university 
or research institute. Understanding team roles and the contributions 
made by others can make your passage through the system easier.
Key topics
➔
➔Advantages and disadvantages of researching in a team
➔
➔Understanding team roles and associated skills
➔
➔Working within the wider academic community
➔
➔Taking part in extracurricular activities
For some, PhD research is essentially a solo activity carried out in a 
library and possibly with minimal contact with a supervisor. This can 
lead to particular issues associated with isolation, some of which were 
discussed in Chapter 11. Others will be joining a research team. This can 
bring attendant advantages, but also some disadvantages. Being aware 
of these and considering appropriate responses can help you make the 
most of this situation and forestall potential issues. Even if you consider 
yourself a solo researcher, you will still be part of a dispersed academic 
community in your department and university, and may benefit from 
analysing the responsibilities and interactions inherent in team situations.
Advantages and disadvantages of researching 
in a team
If you join a research team it is likely to be led by a highly able, 
motivated and respected individual, perhaps of professorial status. 
128 
Interactions with others during a research programme
He or she will have already established their academic credentials 
through hard work and talent. The funding that supports you will 
probably have been awarded only after a rigorous review process of 
his or her grant proposal. The team they will have assembled might 
include a range of members including other PhD students, possibly 
at different stages in their studies. Many will have been part of the 
team for a number of years. You will start at the bottom of a pecking 
order.
Nevertheless, as a PhD student in this situation, you will be 
rewarded with a number of advantages arising from this cooperative 
environment: 
●
●There will probably be adequate finding and resourcing for your 
work.
●
●There will be access to equipment to carry out analyses.
●
●There will be other PhD students and colleagues to talk to.
●
●The working environment will be lively and possibly even 
competitive, yet supportive.
●
●You will fit into a well-established programme of study.
●
●The methods and equipment you use are likely to be well-tested and 
reliable.
●
●You may be credited on team research publications, and possibly as 
a co-author.
●
●You will gain from the reputation of the lab or research team when 
applying for new jobs.
Typical members of a large research group
■
■The research group leader;
■
■Other ‘permanent’ research staff;
■
■Associate staff, perhaps with a predominantly teaching role;
■
■Administrator and secretary;
■
■Technicians;
■
■Postdoctoral staff;
■
■Other PhD students.
In smaller groups multiple roles may be carried out by the same 
person, or the role may not exist.
i
12  Working in a research team 
129
These, inevitably, come with some disadvantages:
●
●It can be difficult to be autonomous in a team (see below).
●
●The research you are asked to do may be tedious and uninspiring.
●
●You may have little freedom to explore your own interests.
●
●You may feel like a small cog in a large machine for producing 
results.
●
●You may feel you won’t get the full credit for your work or ideas.
●
●There may be personality clashes and cliques within the team that 
might draw you in on one side or another.
●
●Your supervisor may be busy, so you will hardly see him or her.
●
●The general expectation for work-rate will be exceptionally high.
●
●The focus may be entirely on research, with little scope for teaching 
activities.
●
●Others may feel they should be co-authors on your papers.
The key to a successful PhD experience will be the balance 
between gaining assistance from the research team environment 
and the need for autonomy in your own project. The latter is not 
only important for establishing the expected academic outcomes 
of the PhD degree (Ch 2) it will also impact on your personal 
development (Ch 5), which in many ways is the important personal 
outcome.
Role of the research group leader
To a great extent, the impact on you of the potential problems of 
carrying out a PhD within a research group will depend on the team 
leader, who will probably also be your supervisor. An effective leader/
supervisor will understand what these issues are and take steps to 
counteract them, especially when you first join the group.
i
Understanding team roles and associated skills
Research suggests that there are many distinct team personalities and 
that each of us has a ‘natural’ team role. Thinking about your group 
activities will help you develop as a team member. What you find out 
about yourself may even influence your eventual choice of career and 
job.
130 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Meredith Belbin, a researcher in this area, has classified nine or 
even more roles that people tend to play in teams (Belbin, 2012). His 
analysis recognises that there are both ‘good’ character traits and 
‘allowable weaknesses’ for each role. The second notion is valuable, 
because it reduces the feeling that any one role is intrinsically superior. 
By its very nature, a research team has a natural leader – usually also 
your supervisor. However, others in the group may assume certain 
leadership roles in the absence of the supervisor. For example, acting 
as the interface between the group members and the supervisor, 
associate staff or postdoc members may assume informal leadership 
roles from time-to-time.
Table 12.1 offers a simplified version of Belbin’s analysis as it might 
apply to research teams. As a PhD student, there is little doubt about 
your initial position in this classification – you are, and will primarily be 
regarded as, a ‘worker’. 
A part of the tension in being a research team member is that you, 
or a fellow member, may be asked to play a different role from the 
one that is ‘natural’ to you. This can lead to problems as people try 
to adapt to the requirements of the role, or when someone tries to 
assume a different role from the one they have been assigned. Also, 
when people work in a small research team, they may be asked to 
play multiple roles or to switch between roles at different times as the 
project progresses.
You can see from Table 12.1 that many skills are required for effective 
teamwork. Table 12.2 focuses on some essential skills for you as a 
member of a research team and provides brief tips for carrying these 
out successfully.
Capitalising on your existing skills
You may already have built up considerable teamwork skills. Perhaps 
you have played team games, been a member of a fund-raising group, 
organised a social event or been employed as part of a team. This 
experience will help greatly as you learn more about your character as 
a research group team worker and transfer the necessary skills to this 
situation.
✔
12  Working in a research team 
131
Table 12.1  Research team roles. The content of this table is derived from 
the work of Belbin, with adjustments to fit the research team situation. Belbin’s 
analysis subdivides most of the roles shown and includes key attributes and 
allowable weaknesses not shown here. Consult Belbin (2012) if you wish to 
learn more or find out about the research that supports his analysis.
Research 
team role
Key attributes and beneficial functions in 
a research team
‘Allowable 
weaknesses’
Group 
leader
Makes the team work towards its shared 
goal. Good at spotting others’ talents 
and delegation. A dynamic go-getter who 
is eager for results. Good at generating 
action, trouble-shooting and imposing 
a pattern. Provides drive and realism to 
team activities. Takes a balanced view and 
displays sound judgement.
May be less creative 
than others and have 
no special expertise. 
Can be impatient with 
others.
Creative 
person
A source of originality for the group’s 
activities. An intelligent, ideas person, who 
generates solutions to problems and often 
uses unusual approaches. An extrovert, 
communicative sort, who enthusiastically 
investigates new information and ideas. 
Good at exploiting resources and 
developing external relations.
May work in isolation 
and ideas may be 
impractical. May 
not communicate 
well. Can be over-
optimistic and may 
have a short attention 
span.
Organiser
Turns ideas into actions. Good at making 
sure things get done. Uses energy, 
discipline and common-sense to solve 
problems. Good focus on fulfilling 
objectives. Painstaking, orderly and well 
organised. Conscientious and anxious 
that all tasks are completed their own high 
standard. 
May lack flexibility 
and resist new ideas. 
Can be obsessive 
about details and may 
wish to control quality 
and outcome.
Critic
Analyses what the team is doing in a 
detached and unemotional way. Good at 
evaluating the group’s ideas and making 
sure they are appropriate.
May lack drive 
and have a low 
work-rate. Critical 
comments may act to 
de-motivate others.
Worker
Willing to support others and provide 
cohesion to the team. Diligent. Provides 
essential expertise and skills to the group. 
Adds expertise but can be single-minded 
and may not see the wider picture.
Narrow outlook, 
focused on own work. 
Can be obsessed 
by technical detail 
and not see the big 
picture. Doesn’t 
like to lead or make 
decisions.
132 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Table 12.2  Tips for being a successful research team member.
Behaviour
Give-and-take is essential to team function at many levels. To succeed as a 
group you will have to get along together. This may require diplomacy and tact. 
Team membership requires everyone to be able to give and receive criticism 
constructively and not to view it as personal disapproval.
• Be willing to compromise
• Be considerate – respect the different abilities and contributions of others
• Be positive, and praise others’ inputs whenever you can
• Respect the leadership of the group and the roles of others in the group
• Don’t form or take part in cliques within the group
• Remember that if someone has flaws in some areas, they may be compensated 
for in other areas (and perhaps at a later time)
• From time to time, reflect on your contribution to the team
Communication
The success of any team depends on its ability to communicate. The larger a 
research group, the more important this becomes. Group members need to 
understand what is expected of them by the team and its leader. Time frames 
have to be defined, as do team roles, and other arrangements such as for the 
interchange of information. Face-to-face meetings are usually important; email is 
also a useful way of keeping in touch. At an early stage, try to understand how 
these communication channels work in your research team.
• Make sure you talk to other team members and try to encourage them to talk to you
• Be prompt with replies to messages
• Talk through all problems as soon as possible
• Understand that other team members may be shy or nervous
• Contribute if your team has to present its work or answer questions on it
• Learn to listen to others and recognise that views that differ from your own may 
have value
• Don’t monopolise discussions or impose your views
Focus and commitment
Teamwork can be demanding in time and effort; everyone needs to show 
dedication and a high work-rate if the highest standards are to be achieved 
collectively. With the help of its leader, your research group must keep its 
collective eye on its goals and targets to ensure that it meets these, otherwise 
team output and future funding might suffer.
• Try to ‘do your bit’ and don’t be a lazy team member
• Understand your part in the overall research group goal
• Ensure your work is up to the standards set for group (and even better, if this 
does not compromise your targets)
• If you feel your contribution is overloading you or is disproportionate to the 
contribution of others, then try to discuss this openly and without attributing blame
• Keep the final objective, your PhD thesis, in mind at all times
12  Working in a research team 
133
Working within the wider academic community
Whether you work in a research team or not, you will be part of the 
wider academic community in your university or research institute. 
Members who you are likely to interact with as a postgraduate student 
include:
●
●Research academics working outside your area. These may be 
members of your progress monitoring committee, or perhaps 
attendees at your research seminars. They may be able to provide 
useful advice or facilities for your work.
●
●Teaching staff. These may be the same as the above or a 
specialised group, depending on departmental organisation. They 
may be involved in your own teaching activities – either by setting 
up the undergraduate curriculum or managing your contribution to it. 
Such staff may have been active researchers in the past and can be 
valuable sources of academic wisdom.
●
●Departmental administrative staff. These may assist you in the formal 
aspects of PhD study, including reminding you about progress 
report deadlines and organising any contributions to teaching you 
may make. Some may have important roles to play in the resources 
and facilities you use, such as IT. The departmental secretary 
is always central to the organisation’s activities and will usually 
know what you should do or who you should contact if you have a 
problem.
●
●Librarians. Most university libraries allocate responsibility for specific 
subjects to certain staff and these subject librarians can be an 
essential source of assistance in your researches. They may conduct 
Time management in research teams
Research teams will have targets and milestones to reach to 
justify their funding. Creating and managing these is an important 
responsibility of the team leader and the ‘organiser’ figure. In small 
groups, both roles may be assumed by the head of the team, whereas 
in large groups a research administrator may assist. There will always 
be a deadline for your personal contribution within the team and this 
implies that individual time management and planning will be required 
to meet your goals (Ch 6).
✔
134 
Interactions with others during a research programme
induction or information sessions for postgraduate students that are 
well worth attending.
●
●Technicians. These staff are important in the sciences and may 
support your work in a very direct way, perhaps by maintaining 
complex analytical instruments, or perhaps indirectly by looking after 
a chemical store or making up stock solutions.
●
●Postgraduate office staff. The postgraduate office is usually a central 
facility administering all the university’s PhD programmes. Its staff 
will be involved in the formal aspects of your studies, including 
thesis submission and the examination. Normally the office will 
publish a set of rules for postgraduate study and examination that 
you should read.
●
●Other officials. These include staff involved in such areas as 
intellectual property, legal matters, accommodation, student 
support, postgraduate training, students’ union facilities whom 
you might come into contact with, depending on your area of 
work.
One special group in the university community could play a vital role 
in your time working on a PhD and that is your peers, both in your 
department and across the institution. These other postgraduate 
students can support you, motivate you, be your ally, and generally 
keep you going when times get tough. The success of this relationship 
depends as much on you as on them, so you should try to be proactive 
in joining in, organising meetings and helping others. Many will become 
lifelong friends.
Many others are involved in the university community, from the Vice 
Chancellor (Principal in Scotland) to the janitors and cleaners. All will 
play a role in your studies. All deserve respect and politeness.
Be considerate to administrators and other staff
Bureaucracy can be irritating and inefficient but it is a necessary evil. 
Expect to have lots of forms to fill in, sometimes covering the same 
information, but often fulfilling an important institutional or even legal 
purpose. Furthermore, you will have a single-minded interest in your 
own project and thesis and many staff cover a range of different roles 
and responsibilities. Their current agenda and associated priorities may 
be different from yours and you may need to be patient when waiting 
for a response.
✔
12  Working in a research team 
135
Taking part in extracurricular activities
The high work rate expected of PhD students may limit how much you 
can take part in outside activities, but these can provide a valuable 
release from postgraduate life.
You may choose to pursue activities such as a sport or skill with others 
who share their interest; you may wish to carry out charitable work, or 
you might opt to become involved in student representation through 
the Students’ Union or Association or your Postgraduate Society. 
Participating in these kinds of non-study activities is important because 
it can help you to develop new and different relationships and also bring 
a sense of balance to your life. It can also provide you with insights and 
experiences of teamwork that may make useful additions to your CV.
Some extracurricular activities can complement your research – for 
example, participating in a debating society if you are studying politics, 
attending language classes if you need to translate key references, or 
joining a hill-walking club if your research has an ecological aspect.
The danger in taking part too enthusiastically in extracurricular activities 
is that you will lose track of your academic responsibilities. This 
should not be a problem if you limit your involvement carefully and use 
appropriate time-management approaches (Ch 6).
How can I play a part in university decision-making?
Representing your fellow postgraduate students can be considered to 
be a special type of extracurricular activity. You can contribute in two 
ways:
1	 Become involved in school/department boards or committees at 
higher levels. To take part in these, you might need to become 
elected as a local representative. 
2	 Stand as a postgraduate candidate for the executive committee of 
your students’ union or association.
Some might regard this type of committee activity as boring, and it 
often is, but it gives you a chance to see the bigger picture, to observe 
the conduct of meetings and to make a difference for your fellow 
postgraduate students.
?
136 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Action points
12.1  If you are joining a research group, think about how it 
is constructed and who performs the roles described above. 
Conversely, if you are a ‘solo researcher’, think about who can take 
the place of these people, where relevant, in your situation.
12.2  Attend teamwork workshops. If you are interested in 
learning more about this topic, you will probably find sessions 
offered in the postgraduate training programme.
12.3  Look into the postgraduate support services in your 
university. Ensure you know what each officer’s responsibilities 
are and how to contact them, when and if needed.
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
137
How to make the most of opportunities 
to tutor, demonstrate and lecture
Teaching as a postgraduate
13
Teaching duties are generally considered to be an important 
aspect of postgraduate training. They offer the opportunity to 
refine skills, add to your CV and, in some cases, top up your bank 
balance. There are distinct benefits to such work, but also some 
drawbacks. You should approach opportunities to teach with a 
considered view of how this will impact on your current and future 
prospects.
Key topics
➔
➔Pros and cons of carrying out teaching
➔
➔Acting as a tutor
➔
➔Acting as a demonstrator
➔
➔Delivering lectures
➔
➔Assessing student assignments 
As a postgraduate, you will probably be invited to carry out various 
types of teaching duties. These may include the following:
●
●tutoring – small group teaching centred around discussions on a 
prescribed topic or answers to problems related to an aspect of their 
course;
●
●demonstrating – lab- or field-based teaching, again to small groups, 
helping them to achieve the goals of a practical or field visit;
●
●lecturing – one-to-many teaching, usually in a seminar room or 
lecture theatre and generally supported by presentation tools, such 
as PowerPoint (Ch 14);
●
●assessing – appraising, providing feedback and marking student 
work, usually to specific marking criteria.
138 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Pros and cons of carrying out teaching
The main advantages of carrying out teaching as a postgraduate 
are:
●
●the prospect of learning new skills related to teaching;
●
●the opportunity to see whether a career involving teaching would suit 
your personality;
●
●in some cases, the better understanding of your subject area which 
comes from having to explain it to others;
●
●the financial remuneration, where you are paid for the work.
On the other hand, teaching involves a commitment of time and energy. 
It will probably take more preparation time than you imagine and there 
may be additional assessment duties that also require your attention 
for long periods. You will also find intensive teaching surprisingly tiring. 
It might therefore affect your research by temporarily lessening your 
enthusiasm and drive. Your supervisor may not like the fact that you 
are distracted from your project – and some supervisors strictly limit 
the time their students can take to teach.
Successful teaching involves a range of complex skills which it is 
easy to underestimate. When new to this role, there is a temptation to 
rely on your past experience as a student, taking the best model of 
teaching you experienced as an undergraduate, and trying to emulate 
this. Of course, you may not have observed all possible methods 
in action, so there is merit in studying the theoretical background 
to teaching, to try to improve your proficiency. However, effective 
teaching requires a range of practical classroom skills and the best 
way of learning these is through experience and practice. Thus, to 
create a effective personal approach it is best to aim for a combination 
of attending workshops on teaching ‘theory’ and trial and error in front 
of real students.
Assessment of your teaching
You should be aware that your teaching efforts will be appraised, either 
by direct observation by a colleague, or by formal or informal feedback 
from the students. This information may be used for references when 
you apply for a job.
i
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
139
Acting as a tutor
Your main task ahead of running a tutorial is mastering the subject 
material so that you can both ask and answer relevant questions. You 
may need to allocate time for reading around the topic, and you may 
need to seek the advice of those creating the syllabus to track down 
relevant sources or to ensure that your explanations are ‘on message’ 
to fit with other parts of the course. Assuming you have gained this 
understanding, the remaining challenges are related to ensuring that 
the tutorial engages and informs all the students present.
Because tutorial group sizes are small, you can adopt a relatively 
relaxed presentational manner. It is vital to the success of tutorials that 
the students feel comfortable with the other people in the group – and 
that includes the tutor. At an early meeting of the group, introduce an 
What commitment might my teaching involve?
When you are asked to undertake tutoring or demonstrating, ensure 
that you check exactly what this will involve. Asking the following 
questions could be useful.
■
■What is the total time requirement?
■
■What training will be given?
■
■Will any materials or directions be provided?
■
■How many classes/labs/tutorials will this involve?
■
■How often will tutors/demonstrators be expected to see students 
beyond that commitment?
■
■What are the mechanisms for returning work, that is, do tutors/
demonstrators have to return work to students in one-to-one tutorial 
sessions?
■
■What are the departmental rules on students’ non-attendance for 
tutorial/lab/feedback sessions? Are there any sanctions? If so, who 
has responsibility for invoking these?
■
■How many teaching-related meetings will have to be attended?
■
■Are there any reports I will have to complete regarding my tutoring/
demonstrating, including reports on individual students?
■
■What are the mechanisms for submitting/recording marks?
■
■What is the rate of pay?
?
140 
Interactions with others during a research programme
activity in which students get to know each other. For example, get 
them to find out five things about a partner and then introduce them 
to the group. This type of ‘warm-up’ activity takes time, but it will pay 
dividends: it is easier for participants to engage in a discussion if they 
know the names and backgrounds of the others present. If you involve 
yourself in this activity, it could encourage your tutees to see you as 
approachable and human. However, there is a fine line between being 
friendly without becoming over-familiar. Remember that you will have 
to assess their work.
Find a suitable tutorial location
If you can influence this, try to ensure that the room in which you are 
teaching is suitable for the number of students (enough chairs) and the 
type of teaching expected. For example, if you wish to use presentation 
aids, ensure that suitable facilities are present.
✔
Agree a code of conduct for tutorials
When dealing with novice tutees, it is a good idea to establish some 
ground rules, for example:
■
■only one person speaks at a time;
■
■everyone contributes;
■
■all ideas and opinions are respected and are permitted an airing;
■
■often there are no ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ answers;
■
■all ideas are worth discussing, provided that they can be supported 
by evidence;
■
■note-taking is expected.
✔
Explain the aims of the tutorial. Either clarify how you wish to allocate 
the time available to the topic or get the students to allocate the 
time they think appropriate to the aims as outlined. The advantage 
of involving the tutees in this is that it gives the students ‘ownership’ 
of the tutorial and makes it less easy for them to be passive. It also 
enables you to retain an element of control: you can invoke the agreed 
timetable as a means of moving on.
The normal method of initiating discussion is to ask the whole group 
a few questions related to the topic, perhaps starting with something 
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
141
unlikely to be challenging. If such ‘round table’ discussion is not 
working, either because no one speaks or a few students dominate 
the discussion, try dividing the students into groups and asking each 
group or pair to discuss an aspect of the tutorial topic. Working in this 
way helps to create a situation where the students feel confident about 
giving a personal opinion. When one student is asked to report back 
to the whole group, then everyone in that group shares some of the 
responsibility for the ideas expressed. In this way, the quieter students 
feel less intimidated, embarrassed or helpless.
A common problem is that some students will have failed to do the 
preparatory reading. You may then find that those who have done this 
are left to ‘carry’ the tutorial, while others ‘ride’ on the work of others. 
One strategy to overcome this problem is to get each student to write 
a couple of sentences about one of the resources they have read. They 
must name the resource. Give the group a few minutes to do this right 
at the beginning of the tutorial. Ensure that they put their names on the 
sheets of paper and collect them in immediately. This will embarrass 
those who have not done the reading as they are unlikely to be able to 
write much. A quick glance will show you:
●
●those students who have done the reading;
●
●those who have not done any reading, or not very much;
●
●the key ideas that students have drawn from their preparation.
You may wish to draw attention to the level of preparation at that point; 
or you may wish to pass no further comment at this stage. Proceed 
with the discussion or other activity as you had planned, or use the 
students’ key ideas as discussion prompts. Ensure that you finish the 
tutorial with five minutes to spare and then redistribute the papers 
and ask the students to write down three additional points arising 
from the discussion. Collect these in and review them later. These 
Beware of digressions in tutorials
Some students may think that the tutorial session is an opportunity 
to discuss points of their own choosing or a chance to ask questions 
about lecture topics. If this happens, stress that tutorials and the tutors 
who run them have a prescribed agenda and that you cannot digress 
from this. Point out that most lecturers have ‘office hours’ when they 
can seek clarification on other points.
✔
142 
Interactions with others during a research programme
observations may give you, as tutor, some insight to the learning that 
has taken place in the tutorial. At this stage you may wish to point out 
that the reading is a prerequisite for effective tutorial participation and 
that you will be repeating the exercise again. This strategy often has a 
remarkable effect on those students who have failed to do the reading 
and will help the students who have prepared to feel that their hard 
work has been recognised. 
At the end of the tutorial, leave time to sum up the issues that have 
been raised and the key points as you see them. Advise students of 
further reading which may be useful.
Acting as a demonstrator
Again, preparation is essential to good performance. There is often 
a demonstrators’ session ahead of a lab session where you can 
familiarise yourself with the material, pick up tips from academic staff 
and ask any questions. This might reveal gaps in your knowledge that 
can be filled by a little reading ahead of the session. You should also 
read though the schedule ahead of time so you can:
●
●gain an idea of the overall timing, and be ready to hurry students up 
if necessary;
●
●identify potential sticking points where your help may be needed;
●
●note critical procedures where you will need to ensure that the 
students follow the instructions to the letter.
Ahead of any lab or field visit, you should make a special note of any 
safety information provided – you might be held to account if anything 
goes wrong. 
Dealing with shy or incompatible group members
If you feel that certain people do not ‘mix’ well, then do not be afraid to 
rearrange the seating, or the order in which the students sit – even to 
the extent of reading out a prepared list of pairings. This strategy can 
help you to split up cliques and encourage the participation of students 
who might not know anyone else. Explain that the pairings will differ for 
each meeting. This means that, if there is a pairing that did not work 
well, you can undo it for the next session.
✔
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
143
Ensure basic safety procedures are observed, for example, that:
●
●students can use the equipment properly and safely;
●
●students are all wearing the necessary protective clothing and lab 
spectacles;
●
●where chemicals are in use, you know which students are wearing 
contact lenses;
●
●all students in the lab are aware of the fire drill procedures;
●
●all students clear up after their laboratory session.
Once the session starts, get the students to their allocated bench 
space as quickly as possible. Don’t distract them if a staff member 
is introducing the session. Ensure that they understand the task they 
have to fulfil, the sequence in which to work, and that they all have the 
correct equipment and materials or know where to obtain them. 
When the session is running, move around your lab area systematically. 
From your comments and attitude, try to send the message that you 
are approachable. Although the unskilled actions of some students may 
frustrate you, avoid talking down to them. Treat them as equals and 
strike a balance between creating a relaxed informal atmosphere and 
pursuing a serious work activity. Encourage questions and be patient. 
Try not to show exasperation with ‘simple’ queries. For you, it may be 
the fifth time you have answered the same question in one session, but 
for the individual student, it is the first time.
When listening to the answers to your questions, check that the 
students understand what they are doing and why. Avoid giving the 
answers yourself when students cannot. Instead encourage them to 
work things out from first principles. Get them thinking for themselves, 
but be prepared to give them some pointers to get them there.
Finally, experiments and observations can fail to work for a variety of 
reasons. If you feel that the student has not really tried, then you may 
be able to take a firm position and instruct them to repeat their work. 
Look out for potential stragglers
Especially at the start of a laboratory session, keep a look-out for 
students who are struggling – these often the quiet ones who never ask 
questions. A helpful intervention at this stage can often improve their 
experience and yours.
✔
144 
Interactions with others during a research programme
However, there are times when you may need to exercise discretion. 
For example, when the student has worked really hard to find the 
answer, but has not been able to get a good set of results, then give 
them permission to use the results from another group so that they can 
complete the calculations and submit their report.
Delivering lectures
Delivering a lecture or series of lectures is probably a more daunting 
task than leading a tutorial or acting as a demonstrator. You’ll probably 
be nervous speaking to tens, if not hundreds, of students and will need 
not only well-prepared material, but a fair amount of self-assurance. 
Often these two are linked, so there is a need to work through the 
subject matter and decide your approach beforehand.
Chapter 14 provides advice about delivering a seminar or paper and 
much of this guidance applies to teaching undergraduates. However, 
there are some key differences that you must allow for:
●
●The course syllabus and its learning outcomes. You are likely to 
be filling a ‘slot’ in a well-defined programme of lectures and other 
teaching formats such as practicals and tutorials. This syllabus 
may not have been of your making, but, despite this, you must pay 
attention to the learning outcomes for your specific lectures and the 
teaching context before and after them. Otherwise, you would be in 
danger of repeating material or teaching inappropriate material. If the 
learning outcomes inform the students’ assessment, as they should, 
then if you do not teach to these, the students may suffer if, for 
example, exam questions are set by others.
●
●The level of interest of the audience. When delivering a seminar, 
a fair proportion of those listening to you will be interested in your 
topic or will at least be polite enough to feign attention. A body of 
undergraduates will almost certainly include a proportion of students 
who are simply there to gain a pass or who regard it as ‘cool’ not 
to seem interested. You will need to enliven proceedings to gain 
and retain their attention and possibly employ a number of ‘crowd 
control’ techniques to avoid losing control of proceedings.
●
●The size of the venue. Often lectures are delivered in quite large 
lecture theatres and you will need a loud and clear voice to 
be understood throughout. Generally, supporting your spoken 
explanations using PowerPoint or similar presentation software 
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
145
will help as key terms and phrases can be printed out to avoid 
misunderstandings. A large lecture theatre presents challenges in 
keeping up eye contact with those present – an essential aspect of 
body language if you wish to engage students.
●
●The duty to be intelligible to the majority. In a postgraduate 
seminar, you can generally make assumptions about the knowledge 
and understanding of your audience. Indeed, after the usual 
introductions, you will be expected to cover your topic at the highest 
possible level, often going into great technical detail. This will almost 
certainly not be the case in undergraduate lectures. Here, you must 
spend more time ensuring that you cover the basics, before leading 
on to more complex material if this is relevant. It is essential to 
gauge from student reactions (for example, facial expressions) when 
you need to repeat something, or find a different way to explain it.
●
●The need for the audience to take notes. Your material needs to 
be paced carefully so that this can occur. Do not fall into the trap 
of putting all the material on a PowerPoint slide and then handing 
this out in ‘notes’ form. This will not only bore your audience as you 
read from the slides, but will not actually help them to understand. 
A key step in the latter process is the rephrasing in one’s own words 
that note-making represents. Watch to see whether most students 
have stopped writing before moving on to your next point. Where 
necessary, repeat key pieces of text or even dictate them. Vary 
your delivery style so that students can realise when something is 
worth taking down verbatim. Don’t be bullied by students or staff 
into releasing your full notes for electronic access. These are your 
intellectual property and, even if this practice is departmental policy, 
a single sheet of headings should provide enough guidance for 
students who attend the lecture whilst indicating to students who 
skip lectures that they will not be spoon-fed.
Sometimes, you will be asked to deliver the lecture using a prepared 
set of notes or slides created by someone else. It is rarely easy or 
successful using someone else’s material. You won’t feel entirely at 
home with the content and will probably not know what would have 
been said ‘between the lines’ by the originator.
Although it is more work, it is a far more gratifying experience to 
construct your own material and approach to the topic. You will 
probably have quite a lot of freedom to decide how to do this. 
Everyone develops their own style, and being able to experiment 
146 
Interactions with others during a research programme
with this is a major reward of carrying out lecturing duties as a 
postgraduate. It is conceivable that you will judge it appropriate to 
provide a continuous monologue, but it is more likely that you will recall 
how this type of lecture generally failed to keep your attention and will 
therefore want to try something different. Table 13.1 provides some tips 
for alternative approaches to the standard 50-minute lecture slot.
Develop a personal pedagogy
A specific approach to teaching is known as a pedagogy. For 
example, some prefer to lecture with the support of presentational 
software, using this as ‘scaffolding’ to keep a structure to their 
explanations; others prefer a more free-form speaking style, only 
occasionally referring to notes. Some like to ‘tell a story’ of a particular 
development, personalising it with anecdotes about the people involved 
and how they arrived at their discoveries and ideas; others prefer to 
create an objective conceptual framework within which they can hang 
information and ideas in a logical fashion. You can experiment with 
your experiences of teaching to develop a personal methodology – one 
that suits you, your subject material and your students.
✔
Assessing student assignments
Assessment is a skilled and responsible task which you may be 
asked to carry out. Marking assignments can be a task that is 
time-consuming, although as you build up experience you will find that 
you become more efficient. The main objects of the exercise are to:
●
●assess the student’s knowledge and understanding of the topic area;
●
●judge the extent to which they have met the requirements of the task;
●
●provide the student with constructive feedback on their work.
Often, your work will be moderated by others, but you should bear in 
mind that the marks you give and what you write in feedback might 
affect someone’s future.
The work of assessing student assignments actually involves three 
distinct processes:
1	 Appraising – which relates to evaluation of the content of the 
submission.
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
147
Table 13.1  A selection of approaches for delivery of teaching during a standard 
50-minute lecture slot. These examples of variants of the ‘standard continuous 
delivery’ are intended to involve students in the lecture; make them think about and 
discuss the lecture material; and keep their focus for specified periods of intensive 
concentration.
Approach
Description
Commentary
Standard 
continuous 
delivery
The lecturer speaks more or less 
continuously over the full period. May 
use written notes or PowerPoint or 
similar slides to structure the content.
Students often find this dull 
and uninspiring, requiring a 
feat of concentration and tiring 
amounts of note-making.
Punctuated 
delivery
As above, but session is divided into 
(say) three, with a different type of 
activity in the shorter middle part. 
This could be: discussing matters 
with a partner; answering a quiz; 
viewing a video.
Breaks up lecture allowing 
for the theoretical average 
concentration period of 20 or 
so minutes. The integrated 
activity can engage students 
with the subject material.
Use of a 
personal 
response 
system 
(PRS)
The PRS system is used to allow 
students to respond to questions 
throughout the lecture. The lecturer 
can use this to test student 
understanding or engage students 
with the material.
Requires investment and 
can be tricky to set up, but 
many systems fit well with, 
e.g., PowerPoint slideshows. 
Capable of enlivening lectures 
and raising student interest.
Scaling 
opinion
The lecturer identifies some key 
debating points to be covered. 
Students have to score their support 
for each viewpoint on scale 1(low) 
to 5 (high); lecture is delivered; then 
students reassess their viewpoint 
post-lecture and then if time permits 
pairs discuss and explain any 
changes in their viewpoint or justify 
their original assessment.
This can be a useful way of 
helping students to develop 
analytical, reasoning and 
arguing skills. It can also 
help weaker students to gain 
some insights into the thinking 
processes of others (perhaps 
more able students).
Group 
discussions 
with 
feedback
The lecturer introduces a topic or 
topics, following which the class is 
divided up into groups to discuss 
defined points under a time limit. 
The groups may report back to the 
lecturer whose task is to tease out 
and summarise the key themes.
Involves all students but they 
may drift off theme during 
discussion. Does not suit all 
topics or all presenters.
‘2s and 4s’ 
technique
In a variation on group discussions, 
students are asked to discuss a point 
in pairs and then two pairs come 
together to exchange views and 
come up with a collective answer/
viewpoint.
Engages all students; makes 
students develop skills of 
explanation and argument. 
Should be time-limited but if 
used in the first part of lecture, 
then students become more 
engaged with substance and 
points in later lecture material.
148 
Interactions with others during a research programme
2	 Grading – which means allocating a mark (grade) to the work based 
on university guidelines and any marking scheme provided in 
addition.
3	 Annotating the script – which involves correcting and providing 
feedback comment on the script using a marking code so that the 
students are directed to comments on their work.
You will need to be aware of the distinctions across these activities. 
For example, just because a student has submitted a paper that is 
poorly presented in terms of layout, typing or handwriting, punctuation 
or spelling, this should not mean that the paper is immediately 
downgraded in terms of content, and vice versa. 
The language of assessment and marking: some 
definitions
■
■Assessment – often used as a catch-all term to mean the act of 
marking (grading), but also used specifically (as here) to indicate the 
combined act of appraising, grading and annotating (see text for 
definitions).
■
■Assignment – generic term for a piece of work submitted for 
marking and feedback, such as an essay, a lab report or a set of 
answers to problems.
■
■Feedback – a term that has several meanings and contexts, but all 
relating to comments (both positive and negative) on the standard 
of work produced by a student or group of students. It could involve 
relatively casual face-to-face comments or formal written comments 
on submitted work. The most useful feedback is constructive and 
contains and tips on how a student might improve.
■
■Formative assessment – task where the work is submitted for a 
mark and comment, but not for inclusion in the final course mark. 
The rationale is that completing a piece of work for formative 
assessment gives the student some indication of the standard 
required and a chance to improve later.
■
■Summative assessment – usually conducted at the end of a period 
of study and aims to assess the student’s assimilation of new learning. 
The assigned mark will be included in the final mark for the course. 
[Note that sometimes assignments that are primarily formative include 
a summative element – the distinction is not wholly rigid.]
i
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
149
For many assignments, there are sets of guidelines for marking scripts 
whether these are essays or reports. Where these exist, you should 
follow the guidelines as closely as possible. If no detailed guidelines 
are available beyond the standard grading of marks, then you should 
seek guidance from the course director or other academic teachers on 
the course. If your department or school uses a marking schedule or 
sheet for providing feedback on undergraduate written work, then this 
will probably provide you with some specific aspects to consider in 
your marking. 
Think back to your own student days: did the feedback you receive 
help your learning? Many students invest a huge amount of meaning 
into what markers write on the scripts and so you should think carefully 
about your choice of words. Important aspects should include:
●
●comments related to the learning objectives of the exercise;
●
●systematic use of marking schemes and/or marking criteria;
●
●written observations that are constructive, focusing on positive 
aspects as well as negative aspects of each student’s work;
●
●an indication of the balance placed on different aspects of the 
assignment (e.g. presentation, structure, standard of English) in the 
particular exercise being marked;
●
●consistency, that is treating each student in the same way.
You should also be a realist about marking. After you have burnt 
midnight oil on the marking exercise, and proudly returned the marked 
scripts to the departmental office, do not be surprised to find that a 
significant percentage of students do not actually collect their work. 
This can be dispiriting to any marker. However, many departments 
now adopt a policy requiring students to be seen by their tutors or 
demonstrators for the return of work. Make sure that you establish 
whether this will be expected of you before you agree to undertake 
the work and decide whether you are willing to do this. Doing the 
tutoring/demonstrating/marking/returning of work may be much more 
of a time commitment than you are able to make. This will depend on 
the stage of your postgraduate study and whether the financial gain 
is commensurate with the time invested. You also need to consider 
whether the loss of time is outweighed by the value in terms of 
experience for your CV.
Table 13.2 provides tips for carrying out these assessment activities.
150 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Table 13.2  Tips for appraising, grading and annotating student 
assignments. These three activities are as defined in the text.
Appraising the work
• Find out about the departmental guidelines on marking of assignments. 
There may be two versions: one for the students and one for the tutors.
• Ask for any marking scheme that exists. If none, decide on your own general 
criteria: what you consider to be the aspects of the answer including key points 
to be covered in the content of each question and the proportion of marks to 
be awarded to each. Be aware (and make students aware) that there are often 
no ‘right’ answers, and that the marker is required to make an assessment 
of the extent to which the assignment constructs a case for the viewpoint it 
expresses, noting any factual inaccuracies and errors.
• Start by assessing a topic that you favour personally. This gives you a 
chance to read work that should be familiar and should help you judge the 
ability band of the group of students whose work you are assessing.
• Look out for plagiarism. Plagiarism is generally penalised and you should 
follow the relevant departmental or university guidance on this, using software 
like TurnitIn if advised. Students are often unaware of what constitutes 
plagiarism and how to avoid it; course handbooks should offer guidance on 
plagiarism avoidance. You should be alert to the potential for plagiarism which 
the Internet invites.
• Where relevant, check the submitted bibliography/reference list. Assess 
whether references are appropriate to the task, up-to-date, sufficiently broad to 
cover the topic and are authenticated (e.g. not simply non-refereed websites).
• Be aware of special cases. For example, dyslexic students may be eligible to 
add stickers identifying their work as that of a dyslexic person. In these cases 
you should discount spelling, punctuation and syntax errors according to the 
university rules (which you should locate and read).
• Always aim to be consistent. Students may compare their marks and 
feedback and will complain if discrepancies exist.
• Don’t try to solve deep-rooted student problems. Where a student appears 
to have significant problems in producing academic writing of the required 
standard or adopting an analytical and objective approach to the work, then 
refer them to relevant support services.
Grading the work
• To get the ‘feel’ of a paper, read it right through and allocate a ‘first 
reaction’ mark.
• Read the paper over again, adding annotations (see below). Allocate 
marks as appropriate, that is, according to the criteria you have been given or 
that you have developed for yourself. Remember that you will be assessing 
university-level essays which, even at first year level, should demonstrate 
analytical thinking and an ability to evaluate the key issues through well-written 
and logically structured text. Essays should certainly go beyond narrative 
description and reiteration of facts from books.
• Arrive at a final grade for the paper, if appropriate summing part marks (always 
double-check your maths). Recalibrate your grade against the department or 
university grade descriptors and, if necessary, the marking scheme if provided.
13  Teaching as a postgraduate 
151
Annotating and providing feedback
• Check whether the work you are marking is a piece of formative or 
summative assessment. This may affect the way that you wish to write your 
comment on the paper.
• Choose what sorts of errors to correct. In particular, decide whether you are 
going to correct mis-spellings and incorrect/missing punctuation and make sure 
that anything you write on a script is free of error in these respects.
• Ensure that anything you write on a script is legible. People who are visually 
impaired may need to have printed corrections.
• Use a pen that distinguishes your writing from that of the student author. 
There is a school of thought that suggests that red is not a good colour to 
use, as students are discouraged by copious amounts of red on their work. 
Remember, too, that red and green are difficult colours for people who 
are colour-blind (usually male), while both these colours have unfortunate 
significance for some members of non-British cultures. For example, in some 
cultures red indicates death. Note also that if it is the departmental custom 
to photocopy marked scripts for their archive file, then some colours are not 
reproduced well when copied.
• Use relevant marking shorthand. If there are no particular ‘marking codes’ 
provided by the department, then you could use some of the marks used in 
Hart’s rules (Ritter, 2005; see Ch 29). Whether you choose to follow Hart’s rules 
or whether you decide to develop your own, it is essential that you explain your 
‘codes’ to the students before the work is returned to them. Do not assume 
that all staff use the same codes or that students will understand them without 
explanation.
• Create a generalised feedback sheet. One strategy that saves time and 
makes the marker’s comments more accessible to students is to use a system 
of numbering. On the script, mark each point with a numeral and, on a separate 
piece of paper (possibly copied for all students), list each error by number. 
In this way the student can cross-reference the point you have made on the 
separate sheet with your list. 
• Remember that, under data protection legislation, students can ask to see 
any written records. Ensure that anything you write on a script or in records is 
not defamatory in any way.
• Explain. Writing comments such as ‘poor’ or ‘weak’ is not particularly helpful to 
the student. Explain your reasons for making such comments.
• Provide constructive feedback – legibly written or word-processed. Offer 
positive feedback as well as negative. Counterbalance any negative comments 
with positive suggestions for turning each aspect round. Whatever you write 
should be helpful – even if you have to hunt for a positive attribute in the 
paper, take time to try to find one. Remember that you may be the nearest a 
student gets to interaction with anyone on the academic side of the university. 
What you write could be critical to the student’s learning, their progress, their 
decision to continue with the subject or their decision to give up the whole 
university experience. In some circumstances, you may feel that it is more 
appropriate to discuss the issue face-to-face. 
152 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Action points
13.1  Take advantage of training opportunities. Don’t assume 
you can instantly walk into the classroom and teach – even if you 
can already do the basics of presentation, you may be missing out 
on deeper pedagogical understanding that could make your work 
(and feedback) so much better.
13.2  Create ‘open office hours’ when students are allowed to 
contact you. This time-management tip will help to ensure that 
your own work is not constantly interrupted.
13.3  Make the most of teaching opportunities. Find out 
from your teaching experiences whether a job involving this 
activity would suit you in a potential career. For example: are 
you comfortable speaking in front of large classes? Do you find 
it satisfying to impart knowledge and increase understanding in 
others? Is it rewarding for you to create new ways of explaining 
difficult concepts? Use your experiences as a chance to add 
to your CV; you can also mention these in job applications and 
interviews.
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
153
How to deliver an effective 
spoken presentation
14
Giving a research 
seminar or paper
At various points in your PhD studies you will be required to deliver 
spoken presentations. These might be contributions to small 
meetings, seminars for the whole department or even presentations 
to large conferences. This chapter focuses on good groundwork 
and the basics of presentation, to help you prepare well and 
communicate your points effectively.
Key topics
➔
➔Planning and preparing your script
➔
➔Effective speaking
➔
➔Using presentation software such as PowerPoint
➔
➔Answering questions
➔
➔Pointers towards a successful presentation
You may be expected to give a spoken presentation in several different 
situations – from a brief and relatively informal presentation to a journal 
club to a full-blown paper at a national or international conference. 
Your talk may be relatively casual or it may be supported by high-tech 
visual aids. In all cases, good preparation is the key to success. This 
chapter will focus on more formal types of presentation, although 
similar principles apply elsewhere.
Planning and preparing your script
Whatever, the occasion, it is important to be well prepared. Having a 
well-thought-out plan, good supporting material and a clear picture of 
your main conclusions will boost your confidence and improve your 
154 
Interactions with others during a research programme
audience’s experience. However, over-rehearsal can lead to a dull and 
monotonous delivery and you should also try to avoid this.
Identifying the purpose of your presentation
On the surface, this may seem simple, but there are several facets to 
consider. Identifying your key aims at an early stage is essential to help 
you with the outline framework. Next, defining the reason for giving the 
presentation and your likely audience will help you to pitch the content 
in terms of depth, detail and density – these will differ depending on 
circumstances and getting them wrong will lead to a poor experience 
for both you and your listeners.
Structure
Every substantive presentation should have a beginning, a middle and 
an end. The old maxim ‘say what you are going to say, say it, and then 
say what you have said’ conforms directly to this structure and you 
need search no further for an outline plan.
1	 Introduction. Your task here is to introduce yourself, state the aim 
of your presentation, say how you intend to approach the topic and 
provide relevant background information. Start your talk with the basics 
– don’t forget to begin with the seemingly obvious, such as definitions 
of key terms. Not all of your audience may have the same background 
in the subject as you. If they aren’t on the same wavelength, or don’t 
understand key terms, you may lose them at the very beginning. 
Keep your introduction positive
Never start a talk by being apologetic or putting yourself down. For 
example, you may be tempted to say you are unprepared or lack 
expertise. This will lower your audience’s expectations, probably 
unnecessarily, and get you off to a weak start.
✔
2	 Main content. This will depend on the nature of the talk. For a talk 
about research in the Sciences or Engineering, you might start with 
methods, and then move on to results, perhaps displayed as a 
series of graphs which you will lead your audience through. For a 
spoken paper in the Arts, you might discuss various perspectives on 
your topic, giving examples or quotes as you go.
3	 Conclusions. Here, your aim is to draw the strands of talk together, 
explaining how all your points are related and giving ideas of where 
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
155
things might develop in the future – for example, suggestions 
for further research or different angles to approach the subject. 
Finally, you should recap your whole talk in a series of ‘take home’ 
statements and then thank your audience for their attention.
Aspects to consider when preparing a talk –  
a checklist
❏
❏Audience. Will they be experts, peers, lay people or a mixture?
❏
❏Arrangements. What is the date, start time and period allocated for 
your talk?
❏
❏Venue. How might the location and nature of its layout affect your 
delivery?
❏
❏Facilities. What equipment and audio-visual aids are available?
❏
❏Context. Who will be preceding and/or following you? What 
introduction to you and your topic might be given?
❏
❏Presentation style. Do you want to use ‘chalk and talk’, overhead 
transparencies or PowerPoint? 
❏
❏Delivery. Will you use a detailed script, prompts or simply improvise? 
❏
❏Requirements. What might you need to bring? Which equipment 
might you need to practise with?
❏
❏Liaison. Who should you contact to confirm details or make special 
requests?
✔
Creating a script or series of prompts
Most presentations begin as pieces of writing that evolve through 
several stages:
1	 Creating a brainstorm or concept map of what you need to cover.
2	 Laying out themes or headings with brief explanatory note.
3	 Producing a script – more or less the full text of your talk with ‘stage 
directions’ and an indication of timing. 
4	 Reducing the script to a set of key words and bullet points – your 
prompts. 
As you become more experienced, you will find you can move directly 
from stage 2 to stage 4, perhaps thinking through appropriate phrasing 
in your head rather than writing down the exact words.
156 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Working from prompts, sometimes called ‘cues’, is recommended, 
whether they are produced as headings on cards or as bullet points 
in a PowerPoint slideshow (or similar). These basic headings provide 
the structure of your talk, so that you don’t ramble or lose your place. 
They also help to promote an air of informality that will draw in your 
audience. All you need to remember is roughly what you intend to say 
around each point. However, be wary of running over time if you adopt 
this free-ranging approach. Ask a colleague in the audience to time 
your presentation and signal to you if you are over-running.
Reading your talk from a written script is probably a bad idea, even 
though you may feel more confident if you know in advance every word 
you are going to say. This kind of delivery always seems dry; not only 
because it results in an unnatural way of speaking, but also because 
you will be so busy looking at your script that you will almost certainly 
fail to make eye contact with your audience.
For similar reasons, you should probably not memorise your talk, as 
this will take a lot of effort and may result in the same flat or stilted 
delivery as if you had scripted it word-for-word. There is a happy 
medium where a talk has been practised enough for the speaker to be 
confident, yet still convey an air of spontaneity. 
Practice makes perfect
It is always a good idea to practise your talk beforehand. This will help 
you to:
■
■become more confident in the material;
■
■identify any complex parts that you cannot easily put into words, 
and practise these independently;
■
■find out whether your presentation will fit the allotted time.
If you present the ‘draft’ talk to a friend or peer, they can provide useful 
comments on your audibility and clarity, presentation style (including 
gestures), and use of visual aids.
✔
Effective speaking
This is more than speaking loudly enough to be heard and pronouncing 
your words clearly so that the audience can make them out. These 
skills are fundamental – although you will already realise that many 
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
157
speakers fail even at this hurdle. Ask a friend to check and comment 
on your diction to make sure you meet these basic criteria.
Good speaking not only ensures that information is transmitted, but 
also engages the audience. You can do this in two main ways – through 
your actions and body language, and through the approach you take. 
First, don’t just stand still and speak robotically. Aim for an element of 
variety to keep interest levels high:
●
●Move around a little – but make sure you face the audience so you 
will be heard and do not pace up and down excessively.
●
●Use moderate hand gestures to emphasise your points – but don’t 
wave your hands around like a windmill.
●
●Ensure you make eye contact with the audience – but don’t stare at 
one person or area all the time.
●
●Liven your talk by shifting between modes of presentation, for 
example, by drawing a diagram on the board or presenting a visual 
aid – but don’t overdo this or the audience may be distracted from 
your theme.
Second, try to involve your audience. Use rhetorical questions to prompt 
them to think, even though you will be supplying the answers. Ask them 
direct questions, for example, ‘Are you all familiar with this article?’ 
then follow up with prepared response of your own, such as, ‘For the 
benefit of those who haven’t, I’ll just recap on the main points’. If it 
would be relevant, ask them to do an activity as part of the presentation. 
This takes confidence to handle, but it can work well and is especially 
valuable to break up a longer talk and engage the audience.
Using presentation software such as PowerPoint
The standard method of supporting a talk with images and information 
is now via software such as Microsoft PowerPoint. These systems 
Developing your own speaking style
Every speaker has their own idiosyncrasies, but some elements of style 
can be learnt. Consider the different ways other speakers present their 
material. Some will be good and some not so good. Adopt techniques 
you admire and try to work these into your personal style.
✔
158 
Interactions with others during a research programme
provide flexibility and allow you to incorporate digital images with 
ease, but do require functional hardware. If you are planning to use this 
type of software, always check whether appropriate digital projection 
facilities will be available in the room or can be borrowed or booked.
You can select from a variety of designs for each PowerPoint slide, 
most of which help you to structure your talk around a series of bullet 
points and to mix text with images or graphs (see Figure 14.1). This 
may help you to organise your prompts, but you should make sure you 
don’t simply read them word for word from the slide. Few things are 
more boring than a speaker reading out what you can already see on a 
screen.
If you doubt your ability to speak freely around the bullet points, you 
can use the notes facility within PowerPoint to write down information 
you might not remember. You can then print out each slide and 
associated notes together on a single A4 page to act as a support 
during the presentation. Use the ‘Print > Print what: Notes Pages’ 
command, but select ‘Pure Black and White’ under ‘Colour/greyscale’, 
or your printout (including slide backgrounds) may appear in colour, 
possibly wasting printer ink.
Figure 14.1  Elements of a typical PowerPoint slide. Similar features are 
available using other software.
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
159
Allow plenty of time for preparing digital  
presentation slides
The technology is helpful but, especially with complex material, 
each slide can take a lot of effort to set up. However, because of 
the flexibility of this system, you can save some time by merging the 
planning and writing phases of your talk into one session. For instance, 
once they are constructed it is relatively easy to change the order of 
slides or to alter formatting.
✔
A step-by-step tutorial for setting up a PowerPoint presentation is 
beyond the scope of this book, but once the basics have been learnt, 
for instance from a handbook or online self-help tutorial, the tips 
shown in Table 14.1 may be useful. Always check that your version of 
PowerPoint is compatible with the relevant computer system.
Answering questions
This is a part of a talk which many people worry about, as they have no 
control over what may be asked, and feel they might look stupid if they 
don’t know an answer. Tips for dealing with this element include:
●
●Prepare for likely questions. Think through what people might ask 
and have an answer ready.
●
●Ask for clarification if you don’t understand a question fully. You 
could also ask the questioner or chair to repeat the question if a part 
of it was indistinct or didn’t seem to make sense to you.
●
●Repeat the question for the benefit of those who might not have 
heard it. The questioner will be facing you, not the audience, and 
their voice may be indistinct. This will also buy you some time for 
composing an answer.
●
●Think before you answer. Rather than blurting out the first thing that 
comes to mind, take time to weigh up the different aspects. You 
may feel the necessary pause is long, but this will not be how the 
audience perceives it.
●
●If you don’t know an answer, say so. Everyone will see through a 
speaker who is waffling. Try saying ‘I don’t know the answer at the 
moment, but I’ll find out and get back to you . . .’ if you want to say 
something rather than leaving a pause.
160 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Table 14.1  Tips for constructing slides with presentation software such as 
PowerPoint.
Aspect
Comment
Background 
and text 
colouring
Choose a background or slide design template with care. A lighter 
background with dark text will attract attention, but will be hard to 
concentrate on over the long term, whereas a darker background 
with light writing will be more restful on the eye.
Slide design
The standard PowerPoint designs are tried and tested, and are 
especially useful if you have little time to prepare for a talk, but 
many of your audience will have seen them before. You can easily 
be more original, for instance, by incorporating an image into the 
background, but be aware that this will take time to set up.
Slide 
numbering
Inserting the numbers on slides can help your audience to make 
reference to a particular point at the question and answer stage 
of a presentation.
Text size 
and font
The standard PowerPoint text size defaults to values that mean 
that it is difficult to get much information on each slide. You can 
override this feature, but there is a good reason for it: cramming 
too much into each slide is bad practice. A point size of 28 is 
probably the lowest text size you should use. Sans-serif fonts, 
such as Arial, are said to be easiest to read on-screen.
Use of 
images
If you can, try to include an image in at least half of your slides. Even 
if these are only partially relevant, they help to maintain audience 
interest. A text-only presentation consisting of nothing more than 
bullet points will seem very dry. Use images from copyright-free web 
resources if you don’t have images of your own. Avoid ‘clip art’.
Revealing 
your points 
one by one
Use the ‘animation’ feature to build up your slide line by line as you 
wish. This will help you to pace your talk and ensure that the audience 
is listening to you, rather than reading ahead on the slide. You may 
find it advantageous to copy a slide with headings and repeat this 
after each ‘section’ to show where you are in the talk.
Use of 
special 
features
You can uses special features for introducing each new slide 
and, within each slide, you can make text enter from different 
directions in different ways and even accompanied with noises. 
You can also link to websites (if your computer is appropriately 
connected) and run digital video clips. Resist the temptation to 
go overboard with these ‘bells and whistles’, however, because 
although such features can make a talk livelier, they tend to 
distract from your main message and may run counter to the 
preferred approach in your field or department.
Handouts
Think about providing your audience with a handout of the 
slides. In PowerPoint, you can use the File > Print > Print what > 
Handouts > 6 slides per page option to do this. When printing, it 
is best to select ‘pure black and white’ from the Colour/greyscale 
options, or all of the slides may print in colour, including the 
background. Numbering your slides (see Figure 14.1) will help 
your audience keep track with the handout.
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
161
Pointers towards a successful presentation
The time immediately before a talk always seems rushed, and this 
may add to your natural anxiety. The key is to prepare carefully and 
methodically. Table 14.2 provides a checklist of points to consider. 
To improve your confidence in your ability to speak effectively, the 
following pointers may help:
  1	 Dress appropriately for the occasion. You should look smart, 
but should feel comfortable in what you wear. Turning up in 
casual clothes may be interpreted as showing a lack of respect 
to your audience and may lead to the expectation of a sloppy 
presentation.
  2	 To reduce tension, take deep breaths. This can be done both 
before you address the audience and during pauses in your 
presentation.
  3	 Make sure you can be heard. At the start of your talk, ask the 
audience if they can hear at the back. When practising, try to use 
the room where the presentation will take place and ask a friend 
if they can hear you. If you know someone in the audience, you 
could ask them to signal to you if you are talking too quietly (or too 
loudly).
  4	 Make sure your audio-visual aids can be seen. If you are using 
some kind of projection system, make sure that you – or your 
shadow – don’t block out the projected image. It’s a good idea to 
ask your audience if they can see clearly before you start.
  5	 Don’t speak too quickly. This is a common response to nerves. 
Make a determined effort to slow yourself down and speak 
clearly.
How can I deal with nerves?
A certain amount of apprehension is normal before speaking. 
Experienced speakers know that being slightly nervous is important, 
because this creates energy and sparkle when delivering the material. 
Their view is that if the adrenaline isn’t flowing, their presentation will 
probably lack vitality. Turn any anxiety you may have to your advantage 
by using it to energise your preparation and thinking of it as something 
that will work for you rather than against you when you are talking.
✔
162 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Table 14.2  Quick checklist for giving a presentation.
1  Purpose and aims
2  Plan, leading to content
3  Practise with a dry-run
4  Predict the unexpected
Identify why you are doing the 
presentation, e.g.
• for assessment
• for passing on an idea
• for passing on new information
Think about the context e.g. 
• the area of study
• the audience
What are you trying to achieve? 
e.g.
• explanation
• description
• persuasion
• construction of an argument
• Brainstorm
• Decide on a structure for 
delivery of your material
• Decide what to include/exclude
• Take the level of the audience 
into account 
• Take into account the time at 
your disposal
• Decide on materials required
• Collate results/facts/figures/
lines of argument/evidence
• Make conclusions
• Make recommendations (as 
appropriate)
• Summarise key points
Decide on a strategy for 
constructing your notes e.g. 
• Cue cards
• PowerPoint
• Slides
• Models
• Realia (physical items)
Prepare methodically, e.g.
• Highlight and sequence your 
notes
• Perform the whole presentation 
as a ‘dry run’ using audio or 
video tape, a mirror, or a friend
• Focus on complicated 
explanations: practise these 
more
• Time your dry run so you know 
exactly how much to cut or add
• What will you need in the way 
of equipment?
• What will you do if something 
breaks down?
• What will you do if you are 
overcome by nerves?
• What can you do if you ‘dry 
up’?
• What questions may be asked?
• How could you deal with these 
questions?
• Can you prepare answers?
• Be prepared to be flexible.
• If you have had to formulate 
an argument, anticipate the 
counter-argument(s)
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
163
5  Produce visual aids
6  Performance and delivery
Pointers for success 
Predicaments to avoid
Preparation of visual aids
• Check for readability
• Sequence visual aids
• Ensure diagrams are clear, 
neatly presented. and visible 
from the back of the room
• Aim for simplicity
• Build up diagrams rather than 
trying to put in too much detail 
to begin with.
Presenting visual aids
• Don’t block the view for the 
audience
• Make the presentation 
memorable
• Explain terms
• Allow time for note-taking
Organisation
• Be aware of how to use 
platform or classroom 
equipment 
• Check out the accommodation 
beforehand 
Vocal
• Speak clearly
• Control speed of delivery
• Have a watch/timer available
• Organise your notes so that 
you do not lose your place
Body language
• Establish eye contact
• Smile
• Avoid irritating mannerisms
• Let your enthusiasm generate 
interest in your audience
• Time your talk beforehand
• Speak clearly and slowly
• Define subject matter
• Engage with the audience 
• Explain your aim
• Explain outline of your talk
• Follow a logical sequence
• Summarise
• Anticipate questions
• Prepare answers
• Prepare your material 
thoroughly; spend 95% on 
preparation; 5% on delivery
• Perceive nerves are normal
• Gain experience
• Use readable visual aids
• Going over allotted time
• Gabbling or whispering
• Memorising 
• Reading your text aloud – 
remember that written language 
never sounds as memorable as 
spoken language
• Overloading slides 
• Overplanning – allow for 
disasters, queries, interruptions 
and relevant questions
• Being fazed by the audience 
taking notes 
• Panicking – take a deep breath 
and console yourself that it will 
soon be over, but it would be 
better to try to enjoy it – then 
your audience will do so also
164 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Action points
14.1  Improve your knowledge of presentational software. Even 
if you have no talk to give in the near future, time spent learning 
how to use PowerPoint could improve your presentation. You may 
wish to attend a relevant postgraduate training workshop. 
  6	 Engage the audience. Speak directly to them, not to the floor, your 
notes, the screen, or a distant wall. Look at their faces and take 
cues from their reactions. If they don’t seem to understand what 
you’ve said, repeat it in a different way. If they look bored, speed 
up, or ask a rhetorical question to engage their thoughts. Imagine 
the members of the audience are your friends – speak to them with 
enthusiasm, warmth and genuine feeling. They will respond in kind.
  7	 Pace your talk. As you speak, check how you are doing and speed 
up or slow down as necessary. In some cases, the real talk will 
take longer than you anticipated when practising. This will either 
be because the initial business of getting set up has used up 
some of your allotted time, or because you have relaxed during 
the presentation and said more than you thought you would. In 
other cases, you may find that slight nervousness means you have 
spoken faster than intended.
  8	 Have a ‘plan B’ if your talk over-runs or the projection system fails. 
Plan things so that you can miss something out from the main 
section of the talk if you are under time pressure (for example, 
by skipping over a few PowerPoint slides). This is preferable to 
being unable to complete your conclusions – people may be more 
interested in those than in the detail of your presentation – and they 
can always ask about the skipped material at the end. Print out the 
PowerPoint slides, perhaps in handout, or note form, so you can 
still use these if the projection system fails.
  9	 Anticipate questions. Think through how you would answer them 
and, where appropriate, anticipate and forestall them in the 
presentation itself.
10	 Try to enjoy the occasion. If you seem to be taking pleasure from 
speaking, your audience will also enjoy the session. Conversely, if 
you don’t seem to be interested, why should they be? 
14  Giving a research seminar or paper 
165
14.2  Learn from other speakers. Every time you attend a 
seminar or listen to a speaker, think what makes the good ones 
good and the bad ones bad. Think about which elements of good 
delivery you could adapt and use yourself.
14.3  If you feel shy, take small opportunities to practise 
speaking so you can build up confidence. These might include 
making a comment at a meeting or asking questions at other talks 
– anything that gets you used to hearing your own voice speaking 
in a formal situation. You might explore the possibility of joining 
a local Speakers Club in your area. In the United Kingdom the 
Association of Speakers Clubs (www.the-asc.org.uk) promotes 
‘Public speaking development among friends’. There are clubs 
throughout the UK whose members meet monthly – sometimes 
separate groups for male and female members. Students who 
join these groups can develop their skills, enjoy the challenge of 
speaking to a supportive group and benefit from the practice and 
feedback.
166 
Interactions with others during a research programme
How to summarise and 
communicate your findings
Preparing and presenting a poster
15
Research posters are often used at conferences as a medium for 
summarising findings and ideas. They maximise the number of 
people who can see your work and the timetabled poster sessions 
provide a valuable forum for informal discussion. This chapter 
explores the design features that make up an effective poster and 
gives guidance on ‘defending’ a poster.
Key topics
➔
➔Deciding on a title, abstract and content
➔
➔Designing your poster 
➔
➔Constructing and setting up your poster
➔
➔Defending your poster
The idea behind a poster display is to present a summary of research 
or scholarship in an easily assimilated format. Poster sessions are 
common at academic conferences, particularly (but not exclusively) in 
the sciences; students in Arts and Humanities subjects are increasingly 
being asked to contribute this kind of material. The purpose is to allow 
presenters to:
●
●report findings or ideas within a single session;
●
●provide opportunities for people with similar interests to meet and 
discuss detailed information inappropriate for wider discussion;
●
●report on work in progress as well as ready-to-be-published material;
●
●focus on methods as well as results;
●
●showcase the essence of their work;
●
●develop their presentational and other ‘soft’ skills desirable in 
doctoral candidates.
15  Preparing and presenting a poster 
167
In some departments a poster session may be used to allow PhD 
students in their first or second years to report their progress. The 
advice presented here will assume that your poster is for a research 
conference, but similar principles apply to other situations. Poster 
presentations at conferences often take place over lunch-time or 
morning/afternoon breaks. Sometimes there is a rota of posters, so 
that over a two- or three-day conference a number of presenters will be 
given a time slot to display and defend their particular poster.
Deciding on a title, abstract and content
If you are submitting a poster to a conference committee, you will 
probably have to fill in a form beforehand so that your proposed 
contribution can be vetted and, if accepted, assigned to a poster 
area or session. The information you provide may also appear in the 
conference programme, allowing participants to decide which posters 
to visit. The form will include the expected administrative details such 
as name and department, but the two most important sections will be 
for the title and the abstract. A possible problem will be that you may 
have to submit the form so far in advance that you cannot be entirely 
sure of what you will be able to present.
Typical components of a poster
■
■Title: phrased in a way that will inform and attract visitors.
■
■Author information: names, affiliation and a contact number or 
email address.
■
■Abstract or summary: stating the approach taken and the main 
conclusions.
■
■Introduction: providing brief background information essential for 
understanding the poster.
■
■Materials and methods: describing experimental or field research, 
background theory or historical overview.
■
■Results: key findings or examples.
■
■Conclusions: giving the ‘take-home messages’ of your study or 
research.
■
■Acknowledgements: stating who has funded and/or helped you.
■
■References and sources: only those that are essential.
i
168 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Abstract (Summary)
This will be limited in length and you need to communicate exactly 
what visitors can expect. You might consider single sentences for 
aims, methods, key findings and conclusions, for example. The style 
should not be verbose and words should be chosen carefully to 
provide the impression of interesting, well-conducted work. You will be 
communicating to a knowledgeable readership so jargon and technical 
words are acceptable.
Content
Although a striking take-home message is important, you should also 
bear in mind the need for visual impact in your poster when making 
your choices for content – this may attract casual readers.
You should not feel that your poster has to include all the work you 
have done. By omitting some information you are giving people the 
opportunity to engage with you and your poster by asking for further 
information. Background elements, such as technical elements of 
materials and methods, can be explained to those who are interested 
during the poster session. Even seemingly narrow subjects will have 
scope for different presentational approaches.
Title
This is important because conference delegates will be scanning a 
large number of titles and you will want to present them with the key 
words that will let them select appropriately from the options so they 
can use the poster session most efficiently. At the same time, you 
will want to make a striking statement about your work. Assuming 
word limits do not prevent this, a two-part title can be used to draw 
the reader in – the first part being a ‘hook’ and the second giving 
more detail. The chapter titles in this book are examples of this 
approach.
Beware of ‘mis-selling’ your poster content
You may raise expectations though an attention-grabbing poster 
title and abstract that implies you have achieved more than is the 
reality. This will probably backfire when visitors to your poster are 
disappointed in what you present. Better to take a more measured 
approach and impress them through the quality of your work.
✔
15  Preparing and presenting a poster 
169
You will normally be allocated a limited space to set up your poster 
(typically 1.5 m wide and 1 m high) and although this may initially seem 
a large area to cover, you will probably have to select carefully what to 
include. This is because your poster needs to be legible from a distance 
of one metre or so, and the large font size required for this inevitably 
means fewer words than you might otherwise prefer. When thinking 
about content, therefore, it is best to assume that space will be limited.
Designing your poster
The key design principle for any poster is to generate visual impact. 
Your poster needs to stand out among the others in the session and 
provide a striking visual feature to draw a spectator towards the 
academic content. This can be achieved in several ways:
●
●a striking overall design concept related to the topic;
●
●effective use of colour or a prominent colour contrast between the 
background and the poster elements;
●
●a large eye-catching image at the centre of the poster;
●
●some form of visual aid attached to the poster, such as a large 
model related to the topic.
Posters can be composed of a single sheet or of a mosaic of smaller 
sheets or shapes. These sheets or ‘panels’ will be attached to the main 
poster board, usually by drawing pins or Velcro pads – and their size or 
shape may place a constraint on your overall design – check the overall 
dimensions as soon as you can, to work out your options for arranging 
these sheets.
The next important aspect to decide is how your reader will work their 
way through the material you present. Each section of text will be 
Examples of imaginative poster design
■
■A poster about forest ecology where the text is presented as ‘leaves’ 
on a model tree.
■
■A study of urban geography where the poster has the appearance of 
a close-up street map with aspects written within each building.
■
■A physiology poster where an organ like the liver is drawn at the 
centre with elements (correctly) attached to it via arteries and veins.
i
170 
Interactions with others during a research programme
read left to right in the usual way, but the route through the elements 
may not follow this rule. Various options are shown in Figure 15.1. 
Whichever you choose, it is important to let your reader know which 
path to take, either by prominent numbering or by incorporating arrows 
or guidelines into the design.
The ideal text size for your poster title will be about 25–40 mm high 
(100–170 point size) for the title, 15–25 mm for subtitles (60–100 point) 
and 5–10 mm (25–40 point) for the main material. If you only have an 
A4 printer at your disposal, bear in mind that you can enlarge to A3 on 
most photocopiers, although this may limit you to black and white text. 
Linear dimensions will increase by 1.41 times if you do this.
Once point size and panel dimensions are known, you can work out 
a rough word limit for each component. Besides being succinct, 
your writing style should make it easy to assimilate the material, for 
example, by using bullet points and sub-headings.
At an early stage, you should draw a diagram of your poster, mapping 
out the main components to scale. You may also wish to create a 
mock poster to the exact dimensions to gain a better idea of what the 
final version will look like.
Figure 15.1  Options for laying out a poster. The numbers and arrows indicate 
the route taken by the reader, while the hatched bar at the top would contain 
the title and author details.
15  Preparing and presenting a poster 
171
Tips for creating better posters
■
■Check out the font and point sizes you plan to use. Print out a 
specimen sheet and stand one to one and a half metres away. You 
should be able to read the material easily from this distance. Copy 
some random text (e.g. from a website) onto a sheet at the same 
font size and carry out a word count to gain an idea of what your 
word limit will be for each component.
■
■Your poster should be able to ‘travel well’. You should think about 
how you take it from the point of construction to the display venue. The 
components should be portable and packaged in a weather-proof way.
■
■Remember that ‘white space’ is important in design. An overly 
fussy presentation with many elements covering the entire area will 
be difficult to assimilate. In this case, ‘less can be more’ if it helps 
you to get your central message across.
■
■Consider colour combinations carefully. Certain colours are 
difficult to see against others and some pairings may be difficult 
to distinguish for those who are colour blind (for example, red and 
green). Bold, primary colours will attract the eye.
■
■Use language to draw the reader in. For example, if the titles and 
subheadings are given as a series of rhetorical questions, a casual 
viewer will naturally want to read the text to find out the answer.
■
■Don’t provide too much detail. Keep the wording sparse, and be 
prepared to talk further about matters raised in the text during the 
poster defence.
■
■Use a handout, if you have too much detail to cover. If you’ve 
done loads of research but have to cut some interesting parts out 
of the final design because of space constraints, consider giving 
readers a short handout to cover these aspects. This should contain 
your contact details.
■
■State your take-home message clearly. Leave your reader in no 
doubt about your conclusions. You could, for example, list them as 
a series of bullet points at the end.
First aid for posters
Create a poster ‘repair’ kit to take with you. This could include scissors, 
sticky tape, Velcro pads, Blu-tack or drawing or map pins. Posters can 
become damaged in transit and organisers do not always supply these 
items, or underestimate the quantity required.
i
✔
172 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Constructing and setting up your poster
Each part of the poster will need to be printed or copied according to 
your design brief. Using panels as described above makes it easier 
to construct the poster as a series of independent components and 
to bring these to the poster session for final assembly. These can be 
attached to your board directly or pasted onto card first.
The panels for a poster can be printed professionally from a digital file 
or using a laser or similar quality office or home printer. Good quality 
paper should be used, and it is a good idea to laminate or plasticise 
this so it will be unaffected by dirt or liquids such as rain or coffee.
Where a poster is to be printed from a digital file, you will probably find 
presentation software such as PowerPoint easier to use than a word 
processor like Word. These programs allow the different text elements 
and figures to be created, uploaded and moved around more easily. 
The size of the area can be adjusted to be realistic for the final printout 
size with ‘View’ adjusted so you can see relevant parts on screen.
Defending your poster
At the poster session, delegates mill around the posters, quizzing the 
authors about their work. These sessions can be very stimulating for all 
involved, and collaborations and even job offers may result. Taking a few 
copies of your CV or business cards with you may be useful in this context.
The atmosphere, at least superficially, is usually very relaxed. Despite 
the informality, expect probing questions to find out about your 
research, and not just about the details you have chosen to display. 
However, do not expect a large proportion of the delegates to be 
interested in your specialised area. They will most likely be focusing on 
the one or two posters most relevant to their own research area.
What are the standard paper sizes?
These halve in area as you go through the series:
■
■A0: 841 × 1189 mm (1 m2 total area)
■
■A1: 594 × 841 mm	
A2: 420 × 594 mm
■
■A3: 297 × 420 mm	
A4: 201 × 297 mm
?
15  Preparing and presenting a poster 
173
Allow visitors time to read the text of your poster before engaging 
them in conversation. Thereafter, you may wish to ask them a question 
yourself to break the ice. If delegates are wearing name tags you may 
be able to work out which institution they come from, which may help 
with an opening conversational gambit.
Typical questions about your poster that you should  
be ready to answer
■
■Why did you take this approach to the topic?
■
■How did you do the research?
■
■Can you give me more detail on the methods used here?
■
■Can you explain this figure (or table)?
■
■What does this mean for. . .?
■
■Why did you arrive at that interpretation? 
■
■How does this finding relate to. . .?
■
■How does this relate to xxx’s findings?
■
■Do you think this is applicable to. . .?
■
■Where next for this topic or research area?
■
■What are you going to do next?
i
Action points
15.1  Find out the dimensions of your poster space and draw 
this out to scale. If you copy this sheet you can use it to sketch 
out a range of possible designs.
15.2  Have a critical look at research posters in your 
department. These are often put up on display after they have 
been used at a conference. Learn from good and bad aspects of 
what you see.
15.3  If you are worried about defending your poster, hold a 
mock event. Prime a friend or peer with a series of likely questions 
(see the checklist above), then try to answer them as you would 
to delegates. As well as getting you used to speaking aloud about 
your work, this should help remove any nervous feelings. It will also 
allow you to find out what you don’t know, in time for some quick 
revision.
174 
Interactions with others during a research programme
How to respond to progress monitoring 
and other feedback on your work
16
Being appraised
At various points in your postgraduate research your work and 
approach to it will be reviewed in a constructive manner. It is 
important that you respond positively to any observations and take 
appropriate action when required.
Key topics
➔
➔Arrangements for progress monitoring
➔
➔Other types of feedback
➔
➔Learning from feedback
Many people and groups have a vested interest in your success as a 
PhD researcher and in the quality of your experience as a postgraduate 
student. The list starts with yourself, obviously, but includes your 
supervisor, your sponsors or funding body, the department, the 
university and those who assure the quality of UK higher education. As a 
result, most universities have organised training and review schemes to 
ensure that you have every opportunity to gain from a research degree.
This approach is not unique to universities since appraisal systems 
are commonly used in industry and other organisations as a means 
of ensuring that employers and employees are working towards the 
same ends to maintain good working and welfare practices. Table 
16.1 indicates the types of attribute that are considered in generic 
workplace appraisals. During the postgraduate progress monitoring 
appraisal, these aspects of your performance may well be considered 
alongside your technical and academic progress. Progress monitoring 
and skills development schemes (Ch 5) therefore give you a flavour 
of the professional appraisal and development planning you may 
experience later in your career.
16  Being appraised 
175
Table 16.1  A comparison between progress monitoring and workplace 
appraisals. This listing is a generic listing derived and adapted from a number 
of sources.
Attributes in appraisal 
Progress monitoring 
context
Workplace 
contexts
Commercial judgement
Not applicable
3
Product knowledge
Not applicable
3
Technical knowledge
3
3
Time management 
3
3
Planning
3
3
Budgeting and forecasting
Not applicable
3
Reporting
3
3
Administration
3
3
Communication skills
3
3
Delegation skills
3
3
IT/equipment skills
3
3
Meeting deadlines
3
3
Meeting commitments
3
3
Creativity
3
3
Problem-solving
3
3
Decision-making
3
3
Team-working
3
3
Developing others
3
3
Energy and determination
3
3
Work-rate
3
3
Steadiness under pressure
3
3
Leadership
3
3
Integrity
3
3
Adaptability and flexibility
3
3
Personal appearance and image
3
3
176 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Arrangements for progress monitoring
All universities should have systems for monitoring the progress of 
individual PhD students. These schemes may go by a variety of titles, 
but the generic term ‘progress monitoring committee’ will be used here. 
The general format is that you will make written submissions to that 
group, and probably meet them, roughly twice each academic year. 
Arrangements and their timing will differ, but may include some or all of 
the following: 
●
●an introductory meeting to get to know the members of your 
review committee, including perhaps any co-supervisor or second 
supervisor assigned to you;
●
●submission of forms giving your personal information and other 
details of your study;
●
●submission of your research proposal (Ch 4) and feedback on this;
●
●submission of various reports, for example, a literature review and/or 
annual reports;
●
●reviews of your personal development and training schedule;
●
●meetings where progress towards your previously agreed targets will 
be discussed, and new goals established;
●
●a meeting after a year of study where a decision will be made on 
whether you move on to PhD studies for a further two years or are 
asked to work towards a Master’s by research degree; 
●
●a meeting where your thesis plan will be discussed;
●
●meetings where your progress in writing up will be discussed;
●
●notification of intention to submit. 
You should receive oral and written feedback after each meeting 
or submission, and often this will be quite detailed. Some progress 
monitoring outcomes result in the production of an ‘action plan’ 
negotiated with student and supervisor.
Supervisor’s reports
You should be aware that at the same time as you are submitting 
reports for progress monitoring, your supervisor may be completing 
parallel forms for the committee to review.
✔
16  Being appraised 
177
These progress monitoring meetings are intended as a two-way 
process. On the one hand, they will create milestones and benchmarks 
for you to work to and (as emphasised in Ch 6) help to even out the 
rate of your work, so that it is not a hectic sprint at the end. However, 
they will also allow you to discuss any difficulties you may be having, 
or ways in which you might be helped to move forward.
Other types of feedback
The formal progress monitoring scheme is not the only place where you 
can obtain valuable feedback. Other avenues include:
●
●Meetings with your supervisor. Depending on your subject and the 
personalities involved, these may take place at relatively lengthy 
intervals or on a daily basis. Your supervisor is the person in the 
best position to advise on technical points or details of your study 
area. They are likely to provide feedback on draft materials, including 
submissions for progress monitoring.
●
●Discussions with other academics and research students. Explaining 
your work to other people is always valuable because it forces you to 
put your thoughts into words. The give-and-take of informal discussion 
is useful for floating new ideas in a non-judgemental environment.
●
●Seminars and poster presentations. Here, you will obtain feedback 
from those knowledgeable in your field, but with additional 
perspectives on the subject. The questions and observations 
of those attending may help you to see how, for example, your 
explanations or data presentation might be improved, especially 
where a misunderstanding has arisen. These may be provided both 
during the relevant event, and also later, in the aftermath, where it 
can be given during an informal one-to-one discussion.
Who will be on my progress monitoring committee?
In some, but not all institutions, your supervisor will not be a member. 
The committee will comprise at least two people, normally both 
experienced academics: someone with knowledge of your subject 
area and someone from outside your school, faculty or department. 
Secretarial or administrative personnel may also be present.
?
178 
Interactions with others during a research programme
Learning from others’ perspectives
You will frequently find that other people approach an issue in a 
different way from you. They may interpret information differently or 
view it in a different way as result of their experience, knowledge base 
or subject background. Their position will help you take a more rounded 
view of your subject, and may even offer new avenues for study.
✔
●
●Referees’ reports. When you submit posters or papers for inclusion 
in a conference or publication in a journal, these will usually be peer-
reviewed. Particularly in the case of papers, this will often involve 
a set of quite detailed comments: someone very knowledgeable in 
your area will have looked over your work very closely and so you 
can expect very meticulous and technical feedback.
Learning from feedback
The natural inclination when you receive negative feedback is to treat 
it as possibly unjustified criticism of your efforts. There will possibly be 
times when this is true, but mostly those providing you with feedback 
will have your best interests at heart. Academics in particular tend 
to depersonalise discussions as part of their training, whereas you 
may feel that you have made a personal investment in the work upon 
which they are commenting. Hence, their criticism may hurt initially. 
Perhaps only on reflection will you appreciate that their comments 
were fair.
A positive mind-set is essential and you should think about how you 
could address the issues raised. Even if you feel vehemently that 
the comments are incorrect, this could indicate that you have not 
communicated your original points clearly. Your immediate thoughts 
should be along the following lines:
●
●Do I fully understand the comment?
●
●How can I seek clarification (when a comment is obscure)?
●
●What should I do to make an improvement?
●
●What can I learn from this?
●
●How can I move on (what is my action plan)?
●
●Do I need help or advice and where can I get it?
16  Being appraised 
179
It may be a good idea not to respond to feedback too quickly. Think 
things through again after time for reflection. With due consideration, 
trying to look at both sides of the discussion, do you still feel the same? 
Perhaps an informal discussion with a third party might help resolve 
some of the issues. Certainly, airing your feelings to an independent 
party is one way to put the disappointment of negative comments behind 
you, before you make a formal, and perhaps more diplomatic, response.
Yourself as your own best critic
A crucial element of the academic autonomy expected at PhD level 
is the ability to self-criticise. This covers personal behaviour and 
research skills, but in this context chiefly relates to the written word. In 
particular, you will need to develop the ability to review and edit your 
own writing (Ch 29). As you develop this skill and your work becomes 
more in tune with discipline norms, you will find that you will receive 
fewer comments on your work.
✔
Action points
16.1  Find out about the full scope of your university/
departmental progress review scheme. Don’t just react to the 
immediate task ahead of you – take a longer-term view, so you can 
anticipate what to expect and can plan your preparation (including 
attending training events, Ch 5) well in advance. Ensure that you 
respect the process by devoting adequate time to prepare yourself 
for the meeting and for compiling your report and any other written 
work required. 
16.2  Decide what to do about feedback comments on your 
writing. The high standards expected of PhD writing may mean 
that you have to take steps to make improvements. For instance, 
does your supervisor always comment about your spelling or 
grammar; or make suggestions about citation and referencing? If 
so, look at relevant guidance books and reference works, to see if 
you can adjust appropriately. Attend workshops or visit guidance 
staff, where these might assist you. 
180 
Interactions with others during a research programme
16.3  Improve your knowledge of editing and proof-reading 
marks. When you submit written work and receive it back you 
may find it annotated with proof-reading marks indicating where 
changes could be made (Ch 16). Most of these may be familiar 
to you from your undergraduate studies, but if not, it will repay 
learning about them (see Ritter, 2005, for example, or ask your 
supervisor whether he or she has a copy of proof-marking rules 
from past submissions of papers or books). These coded marks 
are also useful to know so that you can speed up the editing of 
your own drafts.
Research methods
17  Critical thinking 
183
17
How to apply method to 
arrive at valid, original ideas
Critical thinking
The ability to think critically and with originality is fundamental to 
PhD research and thesis writing. This chapter introduces concepts, 
methods and pitfalls to watch out for when trying to improve your 
analytical capabilities.
Key topics
➔
➔The importance of thinking skills in PhD research
➔
➔Thinking at the appropriate level
➔
➔How to approach a critical thinking task
➔
➔Being original in research
➔
➔Putting forward a balanced and unbiased analysis
➔
➔Fallacies and other common pitfalls in thinking
Critical thinking can be defined as the ability to analyse a problem and 
present a solution to it. Your undergraduate studies will have given 
you a chance to develop this skill. You will hone it even further both 
during the research phase of your PhD project and when you write it 
up. The aim of this chapter is to help you to do this through a deeper 
understanding of relevant thought processes.
The importance of thinking skills in PhD 
research
We routinely think without really contemplating what we are doing. It is 
perhaps only when decisions are particularly difficult, or, in relation to 
research, when positions and conclusions need to be explained, that we 
focus intensely on the logic and evidence behind them. Laying out your 
184 
Research methods
Contexts for thinking critically
Examples of PhD activities requiring higher-level thinking skills:
■
■making judgements on the reliability of sources;
■
■evaluating the content of sources;
■
■designing experiments, observations and surveys;
■
■selecting and using numerical or statistical methods to analyse data;
■
■deciding how to present results;
■
■constructing arguments;
■
■arriving at a position and supporting it with evidence;
■
■drawing conclusions.
i
analysis or argument in words is thus a key stage in critical thinking. 
Expressing thoughts in written (or spoken) language requires you to:
●
●refine and clarify your thoughts;
●
●lay out the logic of your thinking so that it can be followed and 
understood by others;
●
●understand and make use of the connotations and meanings of 
phrases and words;
●
●find the right expressions to explain your meaning to others;
●
●use language to persuade. 
It follows that the skills of writing and speaking are important for critical 
thinking and hence for PhD research (Ch 25).
Thinking at the appropriate level
Benjamin Bloom, a noted educational psychologist, working with 
several colleagues, identified six different processes involved in 
thinking within education:
●
●knowledge acquisition;
●
●comprehension;
●
●application;
●
●analysis;
●
●synthesis;
●
●evaluation.
17  Critical thinking 
185
Bloom et al. (1956) showed that students naturally progressed through 
this scale of thought processing during their studies (Table 17.1). 
Looking at this table, you may recognise that your school work mainly 
focused on knowledge, comprehension and application, with only 
some analysis, while in your later undergraduate years, there would be 
greater expectation made of you with emphasis on analysis, synthesis 
and evaluation. At PhD level, the requirement is to refine these more 
advanced skills yet further. While there will always be elements of 
fact-finding, comprehension and application in any thesis, what you will 
primarily be judged upon is your ability to analyse evidence, synthesise 
new ideas and evaluate situations, problems and evidential material.
Thinking about thinking in this way involves an advanced level of 
insight, known as ‘metacognition’. Understanding thought processes 
at this ‘higher’ level will allow you to place your activities at a ‘lower’ 
Table 17.1  Classification of thinking processes by Bloom et al. (1956) with 
corresponding potential actions.
Bloom’s taxonomy of thinking processes (in 
ascending order of difficulty)
Typical activities 
characterising each level 
Knowledge. If you know a fact, you have it at your 
disposal and can recall or recognise it. This does 
not mean you necessarily understand it at a higher 
level
• Defining
• Describing
• Identifying
Comprehension. To comprehend a fact means that 
you understand what it means
• Contrasting
• Discussing
• Interpreting
Application. To apply a fact means that you can 
put it to use
• Demonstrating
• Calculating
• Illustrating
Analysis. To analyse information means that you 
are able to break it down into parts and show how 
these components fit together
• Analysing
• Explaining
• Comparing
Synthesis. To synthesise, you need to be able to 
extract relevant facts from a body of knowledge 
and use these to address an issue in a novel way or 
create something new
• Composing
• Creating
• Integrating
Evaluation. If you evaluate information, you arrive 
at a judgement based on its importance relative to 
the topic being addressed
• Recommending
• Supporting
• Drawing a conclusion
186 
Research methods
level into context. Thus, rather than aimlessly trying to achieve a goal, 
you are able to recognise the type of activity necessary to meet your 
target and then adopt methods that have previously been successful 
for that sort of task. In short, an awareness of academic thinking at 
this new level should aid you in performing better in all aspects of your 
research. Such understanding will help you to meet the expectations 
of those who monitor and appraise your academic performance as a 
postgraduate.
How to approach a critical thinking task
Suppose you recognise that critical thinking is required to solve a 
specific problem within your PhD research or to arrive at a position 
within your thesis. The pointers below should help you to arrive at a 
logical answer. Although presented sequentially, you should regard this 
listing as a menu rather than a recipe – think about the different stages 
and how they might be useful for the specific issue under consideration 
and your own style of work. Adopt or reject them as you see fit, or, 
according to your needs, change their order. 
●
●Define exactly what the task or problem is. An important preliminary 
task is to make sure you have identified this properly. Write down a 
description of the problem or issue, taking care to be very precise 
with your wording.
●
●Organise your approach to the problem. You might start with a 
‘brainstorm’ to identify potential solutions or viewpoints. Typically, 
this might consist of three phases:
1	 Open thinking. Consider the issue or question from all possible 
angles or positions and write down everything you come up with. 
Don’t worry at this stage about the relevance or importance of 
your ideas. A ‘spider diagram’ or ‘mind-map’ can be used to lay 
out your thoughts.
2	 Organisation. Next you should try to arrange your ideas into 
Definition: metacognition
This has been defined as ‘knowing about knowing’. In the context here, 
it includes understanding how you think and how you might apply 
different thinking processes to different tasks. 
i
17  Critical thinking 
187
categories or subheadings, or group them as supporting or 
opposing a viewpoint. 
3	 Analysis. Now you need to decide about the relevance of the 
grouped points to the original problem. Reject trivial or irrelevant 
ideas and rank or prioritise those that seem relevant. This involves 
several further activities discussed below.
●
●Assemble background information and check your comprehension 
of the facts. You will need to gather or rearrange relevant information 
and ideas to support your viewpoint or position, provide examples 
or suggest a range of interpretations or approaches. You also need 
to ensure that you fully understand the evidence you have gathered 
by using dictionaries and technical works to find out the precise 
meaning of key words or discussing the ideas with your peers or 
supervisor.
●
●Check relevance. Now consider the information you have gathered, 
your thoughts and how these might apply to your problem. Now, 
marshal the evidence you have collected – for example: for or 
against a proposition; supporting or opposing an argument or 
theory. You may find it useful to prepare a table or grid to organise 
the information and help you balance your thoughts. Be ruthless in 
rejecting irrelevant or inconsequential material.
●
●Think through your argument, and how you can support it. Having 
considered relevant information and positions, you should arrive 
at a personal viewpoint, and then construct your discussion or 
conclusion around this. When writing about your conclusion, 
you must take care to a avoid value judgments or other kinds 
of expression of opinion that are not supported by evidence or 
sources. This is one reason why frequent citation and referencing is 
demanded in academic work (Ch 20).
●
●Write up your thoughts. Once you have decided on what you want 
to say, writing this up should be much easier.
Always ask yourself questions
One of the keys to critical thinking is to ask ‘why?’ when coming 
across any new fact, concept or theory. Developing this habit of 
questioning means that you are constantly seeking the underlying 
reasons for things being the way they are. In research, you must rarely 
take anything for granted and seldom rely on someone else’s views.
✔
188 
Research methods
Being original in research
Finding a new way of looking at a topic or a novel solution to a 
problem is vital for the advancement of knowledge and understanding. 
Such original thinking tends to result in small-scale changes in 
academic understanding. Occasionally, however, major ‘paradigm 
shifts’ occur after important new ideas, concepts or discoveries 
come to the fore. These events sometimes involve a period of intense 
opposition from proponents of ‘established’ understanding (Ch 3). 
Even with small-scale changes in thinking, differences of opinion are 
part-and-parcel of academic debate and often aid the development 
of an idea by requiring the proponents of different ideas to defend the 
logic of their position.
Overcoming barriers to creative, original thought
This kind of thinking proceeds best when you:
■
■have a good all-round understanding of the topic – making it 
possible to synthesise something new from these building blocks;
■
■make connections – for example, using approaches from one 
discipline in another;
■
■aren’t afraid of failing – and approach your subject with confidence;
■
■are willing to take risks – and be unconventional in your approach;
■
■have a personal technique for generating ideas – and for overcoming 
being ‘blocked’;
■
■do not act as a perfectionist – and are willing to build on imperfect 
starting points;
■
■do not procrastinate – and find a way of starting.
✔
Do not allow thoughts about practicalities to stifle your initial thoughts. 
What is required for originality is an initial focus on the generation of 
ideas, without these being constrained by theory or feasibility. You 
should delay the process of selecting those ideas which are viable as a 
secondary process. 
17  Critical thinking 
189
Many new ideas involve ‘lateral thinking’, a concept first introduced 
by Edward de Bono. This means jumping out of past thought patterns 
and concepts (‘thinking out of the box’). It involves challenging the 
assumptions or limitations that apparently define a situation, and 
choosing a new perspective on the problem. Unsurprisingly, then, 
it is important to support free and unfettered thinking. This involves 
resisting or moving away from the influences of others’ prior arguments 
or work, one’s own preconceptions or apparent boundaries. Finding a 
personal route to liberate your thoughts is essential for turning on your 
creativity.
However, thinking with freedom should not be confused with being 
ignorant about your topic. New ideas rarely arise independently from 
a framework of understanding. This mental ‘scaffolding’ is important 
to understand the problem, the underlying principles and the language 
in which a solution might be described. You need to find a balance so 
your fresh thoughts are not overly constrained by these influences.
Your brain needs stimuli to come up with ideas. You can select 
these stimuli and try to focus your thoughts or set up conditions that 
support unpredictable new thinking. However, the results may not be 
immediate: sometimes original thoughts come in unusual places and at 
unexpected times. Table 17.2 describes some methods of producing 
ideas.
Reading and note-making as adjuncts to originality
Sometimes when you have no ideas, it is because you lack the seed 
to grow them. You might need to read around the subject to find out 
more about it. If stalled, finding a new source with a fresh approach 
might kick-start your own thinking. It is important not simply to read: 
you need to make notes, so you keep things active and retain your 
thoughts. Your notes should be of three main types:
1	 notes about the subject material (Ch 8);
2	 details of the sources, so you can cite these and avoid plagiarism 
(Ch 20);
3	 your own ideas, as these appear through association as you read.
It is a good idea to keep a written summary of the problem alongside 
these notes and refer to it from time to time, so that your mind remains 
connected with the problem.
✔
190 
Research methods
Table 17.2  Six methods of stimulating fresh thinking.
1 Brainstorming
This is probably the most commonly used technique for generating ideas. It 
means coming up with a range of thoughts about a topic before trying to making 
sense of them. The advertising executive Alex Osborn, who coined the term, 
proposed that the four keys to effective brainstorming are:
• think of as many ideas as possible – the more you generate, the greater the 
chance of finding an answer; 
• encourage seemingly eccentric lines of thought – even your wildest ideas might 
give rise to further ideas and even solutions;
• resist evaluating the ideas until later – the process of judgement may stifle your 
creativity;
• look for associations between your ideas – this may give rise to new patterns of 
thinking. 
Most people use a mindmap or similar diagram to capture their ideas, and 
this method can also incorporate visual concepts. A brief description of the 
topic should be written out in the centre of the page so it can continually be 
referred to.
2 Finding connections
This method is essentially a more focused approach to brainstorming. It 
involves three main phases. First, write down a short description of the topic. 
Second, try to tease out the different aspects of the subject. Ways of doing 
this include:
• focusing on each key word or phrase of the topic description in turn to see 
what thoughts arise; 
• addressing the six reporters’ queries ‘who?’, ‘what?’, ‘when?’, ‘where?’, ‘why?’ 
and ‘how?’ to the topic;
• viewing the topic from a range of different perspectives, for example, the 
different sub-disciplines of your subject, different places, ages, protagonists, 
and so on.
The third phase is to review and select from the ideas you have produced. 
3 Freewriting
This approach aims to get ideas flowing by making you write quickly and 
continuously about your topic. It particularly helps those with writer’s block. First, 
find an undisturbed location and decide on a specific period of time to spend on 
the exercise. Now, write down your current theme and then start writing about 
it. Don’t stop, just keep going, and write as speedily as you can. The idea is to 
capture a stream of consciousness. Don’t worry about what you are writing or 
why, nor its neatness, grammatical correctness or spelling. If the text seems to 
drift off-subject don’t be concerned – just keep writing (but try to return to the 
main theme if you can). Finally, after your allocated time is up, review what you 
have written and select the interesting points. Use these ideas within a further 
freewriting or brainstorming exercise.
17  Critical thinking 
191
Putting forward a balanced and unbiased 
analysis
In academic situations, the outcome of critical thinking should always 
be balanced. This means that due consideration must be given to all 
sides of a topic, before arriving at a personal viewpoint based on the 
evidence. ‘Bias’ is the opposite of such even-handedness and arises 
because a person’s views are affected by such factors as:
●
●a specific past experience;
●
●their culture or ethnicity;
●
●their gender;
●
●having a strong political stance;
●
●looking at a small or skewed sample of sources;
●
●having a vested interest in a particular outcome.
4. Making random associations
This technique seeks to stimulate chaotic, unpredictable new thoughts about 
your topic. First, write down the topic. Now find five to ten random words (nouns 
are best). You could do this, for example, by flicking through a dictionary, a 
newspaper, a series of websites, or via an online random word generator. Now try 
to incorporate each word in a sentence about your topic. This forces you to think 
in spontaneous ways about it.
5. Going on a ‘thought walk’
This is meant literally – going on a solo walk to focus on thinking. Perhaps 
surprisingly, many great thinkers have used this simple method, including 
Sigmund Freud. Several aspects of the approach may be valuable:
• It gives you undisturbed time and space to think.
• It seems that while part of your brain focuses on the repetitive motor action of 
walking, another part is released to think.
• You may see random things or events on your walk that stimulate new thinking.
There are other variations on this theme, such as mediation, walking a labyrinth or 
having a workout in the gym. 
6. Keeping ideas notebooks, sketchbooks, mood boards and inspiration 
boards
The straightforward reason for keeping an ideas notebook or its equivalent is to 
prevent valuable ideas being forgotten. For written notes, a pocket or bag-sized 
book is best, so it can be carried with you for use at any time, for example, to 
note ideas that come when day-dreaming on public transport. Laptops, notepads 
and phones can also be used if preferred. You might also position a pen and pad 
near to your bedside to capture any ideas that come at night: inspiration at these 
times is easily forgotten.
192 
Research methods
Awareness, especially self-awareness, is important in minimising some 
of these sources of bias. This is not always easy to achieve. However, 
if you try to read widely around the topic, you may become aware of 
a greater variety of possible viewpoints on relevant issues, and some 
of these sources will also draw attention to bias in others. This will 
help you become more alert to this possibility in your own position. 
Discussing issues with others is another way of gaining a wider 
perspective.
When writing up your thesis, it is important to arrive at a position 
(Ch 18) and not sit on the fence. However, you must balance your 
discussion. You should mention the conclusions of others, but also 
provide well-argued reasons why you disagree. At the same time, you 
should always strive to be open-minded and receptive to the ideas of 
others. If you really feel there is not enough evidence to support any 
conclusion, be prepared to suspend judgement.
Think about opposing viewpoints
One way of ensuring balance is to take a ‘devil’s advocate’ stance at 
some point in your deliberations. In this context, this means artificially 
taking a view you might not agree with, so that you can reveal the 
strengths and weaknesses of your preferred argument.
✔
Language can help you to achieve balance. In particular, try to 
avoid ‘absolutes’: be careful with words that imply that there are no 
exceptions, for example: ‘always’, ‘never’, ‘all’ and ‘every’. These 
words can only be used if you wish to imply 100 per cent certainty. 
Instead, it may be better to use the ‘hedging’ language typical of 
academic writing, such as ‘this suggests’, ‘it may be’ or ‘it seems that’ 
(Ch 26).
Fallacies and other common pitfalls in thinking
The ability to dissect arguments is a key aspect of critical thinking. In 
some cases you will be trying to understand and counter a viewpoint 
while in others you will be trying to construct a coherent view of your 
own. In both instances you need to assess whether the argument is 
logical or whether it involves a fallacy – a breakdown in reasoning. A 
fallacy occurs where an argument initially seems to be valid, but is 
17  Critical thinking 
193
logically flawed, or is based on hidden assumptions that may not be 
true.
We can sometimes be bamboozled by a multitude of facts, complex 
arguments or strong rhetoric. You must look beyond the superficial and 
analyse the basic line of reasoning that is being used. Sometimes you 
will sense something is wrong and spot it immediately; at other times 
an error will only become apparent after close scrutiny. One of the best 
ways to detect fallacies is to study the basic types of fallacy, and then, 
by analogy, extend this understanding to the argument which you face.
Unfortunately, there are many different types of logical fallacies – one 
web source recognises over 70. Here we focus on some of those 
you are most likely to encounter (Table 17.3). Once tuned in to this 
way of thinking, you should observe that faulty logic and debating 
tricks are frequently used in areas such as advertising, politics and 
newspaper opinion columns. Analysing the methods being used in these 
presentations can be a useful way of developing your critical thinking 
skills.
Equally as important as an understanding of the characteristics of 
deeper thinking is an awareness of the pitfalls of shallow thinking. Apart 
from bias and fallacy, discussed above, here are some of the common 
bad habits and errors that we all make from time to time.
●
●Rushing to conclusions. In the context of research, this means 
basing a view on very little reading around the subject. Also included 
in this category might be situations such as relying on too few 
observations or experiments; or not carrying out the necessary 
statistical analysis of results.
●
●Generalising. This means drawing a conclusion from one (or few) 
cases. An awareness of other possibilities is important to avoid this 
mistake.
●
●Oversimplifying. This means arriving at a conclusion that does not 
take account of potential complexities or other possible answers.
●
●Personalising. This means drawing conclusions based solely or 
largely on your own experience or being subjective about an issue.
●
●Thinking in terms of stereotypes. Here, the danger is of thinking in 
terms of ‘standardised’ ideas, especially about groups of people. 
This ‘received wisdom’ may come about due to one’s upbringing, 
gender, ethnicity and so on, and involves basing an opinion on 
superficial appearances, rather than the underlying facts.
194 
Research methods
Table 17.3  Some common examples of logical fallacies, bias and propaganda techniques found in arguments.
Type of fallacy or 
propaganda
Description 
Example
How to counteract this approach
Ad hominem 
(Latin for ‘to the man’)
An attack is made on the character 
of the person putting forward 
an argument, rather than on the 
argument itself. This is particularly 
common in the media and politics
The President’s moral behaviour is 
suspect, so his financial policies must 
also be dubious
Suggest that the person’s character 
or circumstances are irrelevant
Ad populum 
(Latin for ‘to the 
people’)
The argument is supported on the 
basis that it is a popular viewpoint. Of 
course, this does not make it correct 
in itself
The majority of people support 
corporal punishment for vandals, so 
we should introduce boot camps
Watch out for bandwagon and peer 
pressure effects and ignore them 
when considering rights and wrongs
Appeal to authority
An argument is supported on the 
basis that an expert or authority 
agrees with the conclusion. Used in 
ads, where celebrity endorsement 
and testimonials are frequent
My professor, whom I admire greatly, 
believes in Smith’s theory, so it must 
be right
Point out that the experts disagree 
and explain how and why. Focus 
on the key qualities of the item or 
argument
Appeal to ignorance
Without evidence for (or against) a 
case, it means the case must be false 
(or true)
You haven’t an alibi, therefore you 
must be guilty
Point out that a conclusion either 
way may not be possible in the 
absence of evidence
Biased evidence
Selection of examples or evidence for 
or against a case
A writer who quotes those who 
support his/her view, but not those 
against
Read around the subject, including 
those with a different view and try to 
arrive at a balance.
17  Critical thinking 
195
Euphemisms and 
jargon
Use of phrasing to hide the true 
position or exaggerate an opponent’s 
– stating things in mild or emotive 
language for effect. Use of technical 
words to sound authoritative
My job as vertical transportation 
operative means I am used to being 
in a responsible position (I’m a lift 
operator)
Watch for (unnecessary) adjectives 
and adverbs that may affect the way 
you consider the evidence
Repetition
Saying the same thing over and over 
again until people believe it
Common in politics, war propaganda 
and advertising – e.g. ‘Beanz meanz 
Heinz’
Look out for repeated catch-
phrases and lack of substantive 
argument
False dilemma
Offering a choice of alternatives when 
other options may be available
The patient can be treated with Drug 
A or Drug B. Drug B has side effects, 
so we should choose A.
Demonstrate that there are other 
options (e.g. Drug C)
Slippery slope
The notion that a step in a particular 
direction will start a chain of events 
leading to an undesirable outcome
If we let one property become a 
house of multiple occupancy, soon 
the whole street will be full of them
Point out that progress along the 
chain of events is not a foregone 
conclusion
Correlation used to 
imply cause
A correlation between two events 
(that is, they appear or disappear 
or rise and fall together) is taken to 
imply that one causes the other.
Whenever I wear this lucky scarf my 
football team wins
Point out that the two things are in 
no way connected or that there may 
be other factors causing the event
Straw man
A position is misrepresented in order 
to create a debating point that is 
easily accepted or rejected, when 
in fact the core issue has not been 
addressed
Many asylum seekers try to milk 
the benefits system, and it is wrong 
to milk the benefits system, so we 
should turn them all away
Point out the fallacy and focus on 
the core issue
Anecdotal evidence
Use of unrepresentative exceptions 
to contradict an argument based on 
statistical evidence
My Nan was a heavy smoker and 
she lived to be 95, so smoking won’t 
harm me
Consider the overall weight of 
evidence rather than isolated 
examples
196 
Research methods
●
●Believing propaganda. This is false or incomplete information that 
supports a particular political or moral view.
●
●Making value judgements. These are statements that reflect the 
views and values of the speaker or writer rather than the objective 
reality of what is being assessed or considered. Value judgements 
often imply some sense of being pejorative (negative).
Examples of value judgements
In the example: ‘Australian wines are the best – they are full bodied 
and smooth’, the assumption is made that the listener/reader will share 
the view that a good wine needs to be full bodied and smooth – a 
value judgement. Similar assumptions may be inherent in descriptive 
phrases. For example, if a person is sympathetic to a cause they may 
refer to those who support it as members of a ‘pressure group’; if they 
disagree with the cause, then its members become ‘militants’; similarly 
‘conservationists’ versus ‘tree-huggers’; ‘freedom fighters’ versus 
‘insurgents’.
i
As with bias, many of these errors can be avoided by reading more 
widely around your subject – either to take account of a greater 
selection of views, the way they have been presented, or the methods 
used to analyse findings. You will also need to look beneath the 
surface of what you read. It is important to decide whether sources 
are dealing with facts or opinions; examine any assumptions made, 
including your own; and think about the motivation of writers. Rather 
than restating and describing your sources, focus on what they mean 
by what they write. 
Being descriptive rather than analytical
This is regarded as a symptom of shallow thinking. Overly descriptive 
work relies too much on quotes, facts or statements. Being analytical, 
in contrast, involves explaining importance and context of information 
and showing an understanding of what it means or implies. Note that 
while some extensive description may be required at certain stages in a 
PhD thesis, this should only provide the foundation for making deeper 
critical analyses. Striking a balance between the simpler description 
and the more demanding analysis, synthesis and evaluation is an 
important skill – especially at the writing up stage.
✔
17  Critical thinking 
197
Action points
17.1  Practise seeing different sides of an argument. Write 
down the supporting arguments for different sides of the issue, 
focusing on your least favoured option. This will help you see 
diverse aspects of a debate as a matter of course. Draw on the 
ideas and opinions of your peers and lecturers. Discussions with 
others can be very fruitful, revealing a range of interpretations that 
you might not have thought about yourself. You may find it useful 
to bounce ideas off others. Tutors can provide useful guidance 
once you have done some reading and are usually pleased to be 
asked for help.
17.2  When quoting evidence, use appropriate citations. This is 
important as it shows you have read relevant source material and 
helps you to avoid plagiarism (Ch 20). The conventions for citation 
vary among subjects, so consult course handbooks or other 
information and make sure you follow the instructions carefully, or 
you may lose marks.
17.3  Explore different types of fallacies and biased arguments. 
There are some very good websites that provide lists of different 
types of these with examples. Investigate these using ‘fallacy’ or 
‘logical fallacies’ in a search engine. Not only are the results quite 
entertaining at times, but you will also find that your increased 
understanding improves your analytical and debating skills.
198 
Research methods
How to sift fact and opinion 
and express your conclusions
18
Arriving at a position 
and supporting it
As part of many research projects you will arrive at a position on a 
topic, and wish to express an opinion on it. This requires skills of 
research, thinking and argument, and an understanding of related 
concepts.
Key topics
➔
➔Dealing with fact, opinion and truth
➔
➔The nature of evidence and proof
➔
➔Arriving at a position and backing it up
➔
➔Putting forward your views 
When analysing complex issues at PhD level, arriving at a personal 
viewpoint, or position, is rarely easy. It requires that you: 
●
●read and understand sources;
●
●judge other arguments being put forward;
●
●check facts and assertions;
●
●arrive at a position;
●
●express your position clearly;
●
●support your view with appropriate evidence;
●
●review and reappraise your position in light of emerging publications 
and your developing understanding.
You may have to do this not only to arrive at an overall ‘position’ for 
your thesis, but also when considering narrower elements of the topic. 
Whatever the level, this is a multi-faceted activity, requiring elements of 
critical thinking, combined with skills of originality, argument, academic 
18  Arriving at a position and supporting it 
199
Examples of fact, opinion and truth
The world record for the 100-metre sprint in athletics was set at 
9.58 seconds on 17 August 2009. This is a fact. The record may 
change over time, but this statement will still be true. Some claim 
that many world records are created by athletes who have taken 
drugs to enhance their performance. This is an opinion. There is 
evidence to back up this position, but recent controversies have 
highlighted the problem of proof in these cases. Claims about drug 
misuse are open to conjecture, claim and counter-claim, not all of 
which can be true. Your duty is to identify the difference between 
fact and opinion and write with that knowledge. Do not avoid the 
controversy, but be clear about the facts, the truth and your opinion 
of the evidence.
i
writing and referencing (Chs 17, 20 and 26). There can be no formula 
for arriving at a position, as each specific issue must be judged on its 
merits. However, understanding some concepts relevant to opinion-
making should help you analyse what you read with greater clarity and 
thereby help you to form a view.
Dealing with fact, opinion and truth
When coming to terms with a wide diversity of viewpoints, you can 
easily become confused and lose sight of the differences between fact, 
opinion and truth.
A fact is a statement generally acknowledged as valid and knowledge 
is built from a body of facts. In the context of scholarly thinking, fact or 
knowledge is the basis for further theorising or discussion. Typically, 
you might find a fact in a textbook, encyclopaedia or website. Not 
all ‘facts’ are true – they may change with time as new information is 
uncovered, and some may be hotly disputed. In academic contexts, 
therefore, it is often important to establish the reliability of the source 
of a fact (Ch 8) and vital that you quote the source of your information 
(Ch 20).
In science, the concept of repeatability is important in relation to facts. 
Thus, it should be possible to repeat an observation or experiment 
that established a fact (Ch 3). This is one reason why scientists take 
such care to describe their materials and methods – results can 
200 
Research methods
sometimes depend on these factors. The unreliability of facts is often 
acknowledged: the error associated with a value is calculated or an 
estimate made of the probability of a hypothesis being wrong or right 
(Ch 23). This information should be taken into account when using 
facts in a discussion.
An opinion is a view about a matter which is not wholly confirmed by 
the current state of knowledge or on a topic that may be regarded 
as a matter of judgement. Thus, in many fields, for example, in arts 
and social sciences, there is often no ‘right’ or ‘wrong’ answer, 
simply a range of stances or viewpoints. It is therefore possible 
that your position may differ significantly from the viewpoints of 
noted authorities and possibly even that of your supervisor. When 
your thesis and the views expressed in it are examined, you will 
be assessed on your ability to argue your case and support it with 
evidence.
Truth is usually defined in relation to reality – our current state 
of knowledge. That is, something can be designated as true if it 
corresponds to known facts. However, the concept of truth involves 
a host of philosophical concepts (including perception, for example) 
which may complicate the issue. In debate, something is only true 
when all sides of the argument accept it. If a particular line of argument 
can be shown to lack credibility or to be in some way unacceptable, 
this will add weight to the counter-argument.
Objectivity and subjectivity
Concepts of truth and fact involve the notions of objectivity and 
subjectivity. Objective means based on a balanced consideration of 
the facts; subjective means based on one person’s opinion (Ch 23). 
Understanding the distinction is important at PhD level. The key is to 
produce valid reasons for holding your opinion. Most academics aim 
for a detached, objective piece of writing, and your thesis will need 
to follow that notion especially when analysing results or dealing with 
emotive or controversial issues as in some Arts subjects. Additionally, 
this may be difficult at some stages because you may be impassioned 
by your subject and the thrust of your findings. Of course, it will 
important to state your own opinion at some point in the work, but 
it is important to couch this appropriately using objective language 
(Chs 26–28).
✔
18  Arriving at a position and supporting it 
201
The nature of evidence and proof
The nature of evidence and proof differs according to discipline.
In the sciences, evidence will most likely be quantitative in nature, 
such as numerical or statistical summary data. This evidence will be 
the result of an observation or experiment. The data might have been 
obtained with the aim of testing some hypothesis about a situation 
(Ch 3). If statistics are used, it may be possible to assign a probability 
to whether the hypothesis is true or not. Even apparently ‘on or off’ 
qualitative results, as obtained, say, in molecular genetics, rely on 
assumptions and are capable of multiple interpretations.
Always try to maintain a healthy, detached  
scepticism
However reliable a source of a piece of information seems to be, retain a 
degree of scepticism about the facts or ideas involved and question the 
logic of arguments. Also, try not to identify too strongly with a viewpoint, 
so you can be detached when assessing its merits and failings. In the 
research process, there is always the risk that you might pick out the 
material that supports your personal view without critical appraisal. It is 
important to be aware of such a tendency in your own approach.
✔
Scientific Method and falsifiability
The notion of falsifiability is central to Scientific Method, which involves 
continually updating our understanding of the world through provisional 
notions of reality – hypotheses (Ch 3). Falsifiability means that, at least 
in theory, the evidence can be tested by observation or experiment. 
Thus, whether the Higg’s boson exists is a falsifiable notion; however, 
the idea that extraterrestrial beings have visited Earth and erased all 
the evidence is not.
i
The word ‘proof’ often carries a connotation of certainty that is 
unsatisfactory in such contexts. Unsurprisingly, therefore, to most 
scientists, there is no such thing as proof: there is always a possibility, 
however remote, that an alternative explanation is true. In the Arts and 
Humanities, evidence is more likely to be qualitative in nature; that is, 
a description of an event, an interpretation or an opinion. Here, proof 
202 
Research methods
is still an elusive concept, because it involves the presentation of 
‘convincing’ evidence (a matter of degree) and notions of persuasion. 
This explains why many conclusions are couched in tentative ‘hedging’ 
language (Ch 26).
Arriving at a position and backing it up
During the literature search phase for your thesis writing, you should 
take careful notes of information and other material you might like 
to quote at some stage (Chs 7–9). In addition, you should also be 
appraising the viewpoint of the writer(s). You will find yourself naturally 
attracted to some positions rather than others. This ‘gut feeling’ is a 
starting point for forming your own stance.
Before cementing your position, however, you should carry out 
an analysis of points for and against all the viewpoints you have 
encountered. When reviewing this, you should try to be as objective as 
possible. Does the evidence support your initial feelings? If not, then 
perhaps you should change your opinion. However, you should not 
necessarily be swayed simply by the extensive volume of literature in 
support of a particular viewpoint; it is the strength of the argument and 
the nature of the supporting evidence that should guide you.
Some other factors to take account of when trying to arrive at a 
position include:
●
●The guidance that you have received from your supervisor. Of 
course, you don’t have to follow this, but there will usually be a very 
sound rationale behind his or her advice.
Definitions: categories of evidence
■
■Anecdotal evidence – that which relies on the indirect experience 
of others, such as hearsay.
■
■Circumstantial evidence – indirect evidence.
■
■Intuition – personal feelings (hunches) obtained without the direct 
use of fact or reasoning.
■
■Personal evidence – obtained by one’s own observations or 
experience.
■
■Scientific evidence – observations or data obtained or testable by 
experiment.
i
18  Arriving at a position and supporting it 
203
●
●The writings of noted authorities in the field. Again, you don’t have 
to follow their viewpoint, but you should take account of the strong 
likelihood that it is likely to be carefully considered, based on 
research and defensible. In many instances, however, you may be 
faced with opposing positions.
●
●The views of your peers. This is not the most reliable of sources, but 
discussing the topic with other research students may assist you to 
form an opinion either by being swayed by an argument or by feeling 
the need to respond with an alternative view.
In scientific subjects, you may model Scientific Method by setting 
up an experiment specifically to test a hypothesis (Chs 3 and 23). 
The data you obtain will then lead you to a position related to the 
hypothesis. You must take care, however, to consider alternative 
explanations or reasons why your results might not be as clear-cut as 
they superficially appear to be. It is always valuable to support your 
conclusion with reference to an appropriate statistical test (Ch 23).
How convincing your argument is may depend on the evidence you 
use to support your position. Evidence comes in many forms: from 
statistical/numeric sources, from structured argument, from quotations, 
from experiments, or from observation. You should assess all potential 
evidence for relevance and value, and you must make sure you cite the 
source of the information in your own writing, otherwise you may be 
accused of plagiarism (Ch 20).
Above all, you should try to produce a balanced conclusion. This is one 
where you are open about counter-arguments and counter-evidence 
that does not, at least on the face of it, support your case. You must 
explain what others think or might think, then explain why you have 
arrived at the conclusion you have reached yourself.
Taking care with concepts of evidence and proof
■
■Provide evidence to support an assertions or statement of fact.
■
■Account for the nature and reliability of all evidence.
■
■Cite references to back up an assertion or statement of fact (Ch 20).
■
■Be clear when something is an opinion rather than a fact.
■
■Take care when using the noun ‘proof’ or the verb ‘proves’.
■
■Use hedging language (Ch 27) to avoid implying certainty.
✔
204 
Research methods
Putting forward your views
Argument through discussion, and its more formal partner debate, are 
vital parts of scholarship. A valid position on any subject should be 
capable of being defended. Similarly, you should feel able to attack a 
position with which you disagree. In some cases, the acts of defence 
and attack are artificial devices to explore a position.
The ground rules for this are as follows:
1	 State your viewpoint. Of course, this requires that you have first 
arrived at a position on the topic, as discussed above. This view 
should be explained clearly, demonstrating, where necessary, 
the steps in logic you have taken to arrive at your view. A certain 
amount of background information may be important here.
2	 Provide reasoning and evidence. As part of arriving at a view, you 
should have researched the topic (Chs 4, 7 and 8) and this is your 
opportunity to summarise the key evidence. 
3	 Outline briefly the counter-arguments and your points against 
them. This forces you to identify and confront the potential 
weaknesses in your position, and is an essential part of arriving at 
a coherent viewpoint. If you have thought things through carefully, 
it should not be difficult to point out the flaws in other arguments, 
but remember again to use evidence to support this side of your 
case.
4	 Conclude. This is where you summarise the key evidence for and 
against your position, the implications or consequences of taking 
this line of thought and ending perhaps with a final restatement of 
your case and why you feel it is valid.
Keeping up attention and focus in your argument
When dealing with a complex issue, it is easy to become mired in 
detail. Avoid this by returning to your key theme from time to time. You 
can use ‘reminding’ wordings such as ‘in relation to the theme of. . .’ or 
‘this shows that. . .’ which give you the excuse to repeat or summarise 
your position from time to time. Another approach is to ‘number’ your 
points (Firstly,. . .; then secondly,. . .; and finally,. . .) so readers will know 
where they are in your argument. 
✔
18  Arriving at a position and supporting it 
205
What’s the value of understanding techniques for 
persuasion?
Not only will they help you structure your own case, these methods 
will help you to think about the way others’ points are being made – 
particularly useful if you wish to counter their argument.
?
Practise your analytical powers by dissecting the 
arguments of politicians, pundits and external 
speakers
When watching a televised debate, news report or sports programme, 
listen carefully for the ways in which the participants’ points are made 
– look out particularly for fallacies, methods of persuasion, or the 
incorrect use of evidence. Also, when attending seminars, pay attention 
to the techniques speakers use when presenting their views.
✔
Various linguistic devices can be used to promote a point of view. 
General guidance on the structure, language and presentation of 
scholarly writing is provided in Chapter 27. Here, the focus is on 
persuasive writing technique, sometimes called rhetoric. These methods 
are important because a poorly scripted argument will fail to convince.
Table 18.1 outlines ten methods commonly used to persuade. However, 
it is easy to overdo some forms of persuasion, and if used wrongly they 
may even be the source of fallacies (Ch 17). Moreover, certain methods 
commonly found in politics, advertising and bar-room arguments are 
regarded as unacceptable in scholarly work. These include:
●
●use of emotive or pejorative wording;
●
●implication of certainty when this is unjustified;
●
●making opinion sound like fact;
●
●selective use of information;
●
●unjustified simplification and generalisation;
●
●use of exaggeration and melodrama;
●
●unsubstantiated anecdote or invented examples.
Some of these approaches may be associated with propaganda 
techniques, that is, providing strongly biased or partial information. Use 
of any these methods will almost certainly lead to strong questioning of 
your conclusions.
206 
Research methods
Table 18.1  Ten techniques for persuasion. These are phrased for a written 
argument as in a thesis where for ‘reader’ you might substitute ‘external 
examiner’, but they also apply for oral argument – the word ‘reader’ here could 
apply to listeners.
  1	 Create a problem – and help solve it. Convince your reader that there is 
an issue at stake and that your preferred solution is the best available. The 
more they identify with the problem or its consequences, the more they will 
be inclined to connect with your argument, and, potentially, to accept your 
answer. This method is much used in advertising.
  2	 Create a consistent and logical route to your answer. Start with an initial 
point that is easy for the reader to agree with, and then move step-by-step 
towards your conclusion, with each element moving on from the previous. 
Make the connections clear. It will be difficult to escape from your logic.
  3	 Give reasons for agreeing. Explain the advantages of agreement with 
your line of reasoning and the disadvantages of disagreement. This will 
reinforce your position in the mind of the reader. Help the reader imagine the 
consequences under different scenarios. Explain why things are likely to turn 
out as you predict.
  4	 Provide evidence. Back up your argument with relevant information that 
supports your case. Query the status of evidence that is used by those who 
oppose your view.
  5	 Repeat your case in different words. Restate your argument several times 
in the hope that it hits home. Use a range of different methods, such as direct 
statement, metaphor (see point 9) or anecdote (see point 10), or the repetition 
might antagonise the reader.
  6	 Get your reader thinking your way. Why not use rhetorical questions to do 
this? These are queries that you go on to answer for the reader. They are a 
good way to engage readers and can be used to lead them to your preferred 
answer.
  7	 Deal with potential objections. Lead the reader through any objections that 
they might come up with, then counter each of the objections. There will be 
only one path remaining: to agree with you.
The following methods are often used in debate, but should only be used with 
great caution in academic writing:
  8	 Help the reader identify with your argument. There are several methods for 
this. You could establish common ground and by extension a common goal; 
let the reader feel they are in on a secret; use humour; personalise the issue 
and its solution.
  9	 Mix up the way you express your argument. Employ metaphor, simile 
and analogy to restate your points in ways that will engage different sorts of 
reader.
10	 Illustrate your argument. Tell a story. Lead the reader via an interesting 
anecdote. This will help them imagine the issue and the solution. Use visual 
images, if this suits the situation.
18  Arriving at a position and supporting it 
207
Action points
18.1  Think further about the nature of opinion and evidence in 
your own subject. You can base this both on your undergraduate 
experiences and on your current reading. What types of views are 
expressed, and how? What types of supporting information are 
generally used? What can this tell you about the origins of facts in 
your discipline? 
18.2  Reflect on the origin of your position on a specific issue. 
Think of a situation where you have had little problem in deciding 
where you stand. This could be a moral issue, a political issue 
or an academic debate. Why do you think the way to do? Think 
back to influences such as people, events or books. Why were 
you persuaded to have a particular viewpoint? How much is this 
supported by evidence, or is it, at least in part, intuitive? Would 
you have a problem in defending it in an academic scenario? What 
does this tell you about the way you should arrive at viewpoints for 
your thesis?
18.3  Look at a specific issue from all possible angles. Choose 
one in which you are not yet certain of your views. The idea is test 
whether your initial stance might be the result of unwitting bias 
(Ch 17) and whether consciously trying to see things in different 
ways changes or hardens your position. One way of doing this 
would be to imagine what the different ‘stakeholders’ in an issue 
would think or say. Even the act of thinking who these groups 
could be might open up possible ‘takes’ on the topic.
208 
Research methods
19
How to conduct an appropriate, 
principled and safe investigation
Research ethics and safety
For many research topics and methodologies, it is important to 
consider the ethical and safety aspects regarding your study. The 
precise details differ according to discipline and the nature of the 
investigation. This chapter outlines the principles and procedures 
that may apply to you as a PhD student.
Key topics
➔
➔Ethical principles
➔
➔Consent and confidentiality
➔
➔Obtaining ethical approval
➔
➔Safe research
The term ‘ethics’ in the research context refers to the principles, 
rules and standards of conduct that apply to investigations. Most 
disciplines have self-monitoring codes of ethical practice and your 
institution will operate its own internal research governance policy. 
The types of ethical requirements vary among disciplines and your 
study must comply with recognised practice in your field and your 
institution.
You must familiarise yourself with these codes and be able to bring 
that understanding to discussions with your supervisor. He or she 
will be responsible for ensuring that your research proposal complies 
with ethical practice in your institution, but you have an important part 
to play. Where necessary, your supervisor will help you prepare an 
application to conduct the research for submission to your institution’s 
Ethics Committee. Note that there may be different committees and 
rules for clinical and non-clinical research.
19  Research ethics and safety 
209
Ethical principles
Any research project involving human beings should be characterised 
by protection of the human rights, dignity, health and safety of 
participants and researchers. This is achieved by observing three 
fundamental tenets:
●
●the research should do no harm;
●
●consent should be informed and voluntary;
●
●confidentiality should be respected throughout. 
Research involving humans might require interactions with people 
of certain groupings – for example, people in their roles as patients, 
clients, pupils, parents or peers. The list is boundless. Whoever is 
involved and in whatever respect, these ethical principles must be 
recognised and followed in practice as well as spirit. 
Ethics Committees
These bodies comprise academics from within your institution and they 
monitor research activity at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. 
In addition to approving applications to conduct research, they also 
hear appeals where approval has not been granted, provide guidance 
on cases that are unclear, and refer cases of research misconduct to 
higher institutional authority. Their procedures are recorded in writing 
and are available for public scrutiny.
✔
Codes of practice for human research
These conventions are enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights (1948) and in the Nuremberg Code (1949). These agreements 
have provided the basis for ethical research practices in academic 
research involving humans.
i
Ethical considerations may relate to non-human as well as human 
research activity. Important areas have included the use of animals in 
research, cloning, human embryo research, stem cell research, in vitro 
fertilisation, and nuclear research. In the UK, experiments involving 
animals are subject to Home Office approval. If this is required for your 
work, your supervisor will guide you through the procedures. Similarly, 
210 
Research methods
experiments involving genetic manipulation must comply with relevant 
legislation and you will be guided through relevant procedures if 
necessary.
Consent and confidentiality
Participants may need to be informed in writing about certain aspects 
of your research. This is usually provided as a ‘Participant Information 
Sheet’, which generally includes the following information:
●
●outline of the purpose of the study;
●
●invitation and reason for being selected;
●
●explanation of the voluntary nature of participation and of the 
freedom of the subject to withdraw from the project at any time;
●
●explanation of the procedure to be followed in the research and the 
time commitment involved;
●
●advantages and disadvantages of participation;
●
●assurance of confidentiality and anonymity;
●
●information about outcomes;
●
●information about the funding source;
●
●names of lead researcher and assistants;
●
●information about any sponsorship or affiliation connected to the 
project;
●
●information about refunding of expenses, if applicable.
How ethical is your research?
Unethical approaches to research can be inadvertent and unintended. 
For example, vulnerable groups may feel pressured into participating 
although members of such groups may not express this to the 
researcher. Patients may feel that they will receive better treatment 
if they participate in a study and risk a poorer level of treatment if 
they don’t. Consequently, your research design and consent forms 
must reflect your awareness of such potential perceptions. Cases 
of unethical research procedures are legion and, thus, the field of 
ethics is a complex one. If you have any doubts at all about the 
ethical dimension of your study then you should discuss these with 
your supervisor to ensure that neither you nor your subjects are 
compromised by the research activity.
?
19  Research ethics and safety 
211
Data protection
The storage and use of personal information is an ethical issue. In the 
UK, the Data Protection Act covers procedures that must be adopted. 
Consult your university’s Data Protection Officer or relevant web pages 
for information and guidance on local procedures if you plan to store 
information either in paper files or electronically. Legislation apart, it is 
simply good practice to time-limit the period for which data will remain 
on your records – and to inform participants how their data will be 
stored, and when it will be deleted or destroyed.
i
Particularly in the clinical area, a ‘template’ is often adopted to frame 
the explanation for participants. However, in many instances this is 
often unsatisfactory because the language used, and the format and 
layout are often unclear to the non-specialist. Every effort should be 
made to inform participants about the project as concisely as possible 
in ‘plain’ English, that is, in language that can be easily assimilated 
and understood by people in all walks of life. In response to this 
information, participants are then requested to complete an ‘Informed 
Consent Form’ that requires their signature. In some instances, a 
debriefing form will also need to be completed once the data-gathering 
phase is concluded.
Human participants must be assured that their identities will 
be protected by the promise of anonymity. This means that the 
confidentiality of any representation of data whether in aggregated 
forms (for example, mean value) or as qualitative material that might 
be obtained from individuals (for example, through questionnaires, 
interviews or focus groups) is protected in any printed format. It is 
essential that written permission to quote informants be sought from 
them at the time of participation in the enquiry, with the proviso that 
identities will be protected when findings are reported.
Obtaining ethical approval
You should first read the guidance notes provided by your university’s 
ethics committee or department. Consult your university’s website 
for up-to-date and detailed information on approaches to research 
ethics. In addition to the ethical policy, there may be general guidance, 
information, discipline-specific advice, and links to useful websites.
212 
Research methods
Once you have satisfied yourself that you have made arrangements 
to cover the ethical dimensions of your research project, you will be in 
a position to frame your proposal for ethical approval. Institutions will 
vary in the formats required.
In general, you will need to provide information on:
●
●the title, purpose and duration of the project, and the location of the 
study;
●
●the methodological approach to be adopted, and information on 
how data will be stored securely;
●
●if appropriate, the way in which participants will be recruited, plus 
information as to age, gender and any inclusion/exclusion criteria;
●
●measures taken to ensure that all ethical dimensions are covered in 
compliance with the appropriate research code of practice in your 
institution, including confidentiality in reporting results; 
●
●if appropriate, identification of the involvement of any funding body. 
When preparing your research proposal (Ch 3), and subsequent 
revisions, you should make due allowance for the time taken to obtain 
ethical approval (your supervisor can advise on anticipated delays). 
Make sure that you carry out some relevant work, such as a literature 
review, while you are waiting.
Consult appropriate texts and websites related to 
ethics
If you wish to know more about this area, potential starting points are 
Sana (2000) and Shamoo and Resnik (2009), but also consult the library 
catalogue or ask at your library for holdings specific to your discipline. 
Websites for the learned societies in your discipline will include obtain 
up-to-date information about ethical aspects that may impact on your 
research study.
✔
Safe research
It is a fundamental tenet of research activity in the spirit of international 
codes of practice that the health and safety of all those involved in 
research activity as participants or researchers should be a priority 
at all times. Thus, all research approved by the appropriate ethics 
19  Research ethics and safety 
213
committee must follow passed protocols exactly. Any modification to 
the original proposal has to be referred back to the ethics committee. 
For the purposes of postgraduate research proposals, although the 
student is acting as the ‘Principal Investigator’, the actual Principal 
Investigator responsibility remains with the Supervisor.
Those researching in laboratory- or field-based subjects will be familiar 
with the general regulations for safe research from their undergraduate 
days. Any local rules associated with lab or field work, even if familiar, 
will have safety as their primary concern, so you must pay attention 
to them. In some cases, as a postgraduate, however, you may be 
expected to take responsibility for acting safely. You may need to 
work with toxic chemicals, dangerous instruments, or in hazardous 
environments, so care is essential. At an initial meeting with your 
supervisor, you will be introduced to relevant safety measures and 
legislation, told about the fire drill and shown relevant hazard symbols 
(Figure 19.1).
In the lab, you will be expected to wear a lab coat – which should 
always be buttoned up – and, if you have long hair, asked to tie it back. 
Eye protection goggles may be necessary for some procedures, and 
those who normally wear contact lenses may be subject to special 
rules because vapours of corrosive laboratory chemicals may become 
trapped between the lens and the cornea of the eye. You should never 
eat or smoke in a lab. You should also keep your bench space tidy and 
quickly dispose of specimens or sharps as instructed.
Where hazardous materials or procedures are involved, you will be told 
about the COSHH risk assessment (see tip on the next page) and you 
have a duty to read this carefully.
Figure 19.1  Some of the main EU hazard symbols.
214 
Research methods
When working with chemicals or live organisms such as bacteria, take 
appropriate precautions:
●
●be aware of all possible modes of ingestion, including inhalation by 
nose or mouth, ingestion by mouth, absorption through exposed 
skill, inoculation through skin;
●
●take special care with procedures such as pipetting or transferring 
samples between vessels;
●
●note where eye washes and emergency showers are located in your 
lab and understand the appropriate procedures when you come into 
contact with chemicals;
●
●know what to do to contain or remove accidentally spilt chemicals 
(you will also probably need to report such events);
●
●make sure you know what type of fire extinguisher or fire blanket to 
use for the reagents being used, and where these are located;
●
●always wash your hands thoroughly after each lab.
Following safety procedures
Your university will have a safety office and policies in place for 
potentially dangerous procedures or to cover risks like exposure to 
hazardous chemicals. Ignoring these would be regarded as a serious 
disciplinary offence. Completing paper work, such as Control of 
Chemicals Hazardous to Health (COSHH) forms, should be regarded 
as an opportunity to learn about the risks associated with your work, 
rather than a chore.
i
Definition: COSHH
This stands for ‘Control of Substances Hazardous to Health’ – a UK 
regulation that came into force in 1999. It lays out the legal framework 
for risk assessment whenever hazardous chemicals, agents or 
procedures are used. Normally the person in charge of your lab work 
or field visit (your supervisor or a senior lab technician) will carry out a 
COSHH assessment, which should be displayed prominently and/or 
communicated to you.
i
For field visits, you will be advised about appropriate clothing. You 
should take special care to use appropriate footwear and be prepared 
for a change of weather conditions. If in a group, you should stay 
19  Research ethics and safety 
215
close to the main body of people; otherwise, try always to work with a 
partner, rather than alone. Any field work group should:
●
●take a first aid kit (and know how to use it, following basic first aid 
procedures);
●
●leave full details of where they are going and when they expect to return;
●
●consult a weather forecast before they leave, and if working on the 
sea-shore, find out about the state of the tides.
Modelling safe practice for others
Safety procedures are often common sense but how you observe 
them is part of your community responsibility. In the lab, as a PhD 
student, you will represent a role model for undergraduates and less 
experienced researchers. Hence it is important that you lead by setting 
a good example in your practice in the practical environment be it in 
the laboratory or in the field.
i
Action points
19.1  Brainstorm the ethical dimensions of your research. 
Using this chapter as a guide, elaborate on these aspects and any 
others you should be taking into account – then research them 
fully. Where possible, discuss ethical dimensions of research with 
peers and academic staff. This will raise your awareness of issues 
that can arise and may also provide you with some benchmarks 
against which to judge your own study.
19.2  Familiarise yourself with the ethics guidelines that govern 
research activity in your specialist field. Often the guidelines 
are provided in the literature of your professional association. 
Look also at ‘Materials and Methods’ sections in relevant research 
papers to establish the norms for ethical behaviour your field of 
work. Use a search engine to identify any major cases that have 
raised ethical issues in the research context.
19.3  Address ethical and safety issues as soon as you can. If 
there are likely to be significant ethical and safety dimensions to 
your project, ask to meet up with your supervisor at an early stage 
to discuss these issues and how they should be handled.
216 
Research methods
How to refer appropriately to 
the results and ideas of others
20
Citing, referencing and 
avoiding plagiarism
The ability to cite and quote sources correctly in your text and create 
an appropriately formatted reference list is essential for thesis and 
publication writing. This chapter outlines conventions and linguistic 
styles for achieving this.
Key topics
➔
➔The rationale for correct citation and referencing
➔
➔Avoiding plagiarism
➔
➔Methods and styles of citation
➔
➔Quotation techniques
➔
➔Summarising and paraphrasing
➔
➔An outline of referencing styles
With the advent of digital archiving and searching systems, today’s 
researchers have, at their fingertips, a wide array of accessible 
material to support their learning and writing. Clearly, the ability to 
search, copy, paste and adapt that material has many advantages, 
but it also brings the risk of plagiarism closer. That risk can be 
ameliorated via the processes of citation, referencing, quotation and 
paraphrasing, when these are carried out in an appropriate way. This 
chapter outlines the principles behind these processes so that you 
can, from the outset, apply them correctly in your thesis and any 
publications.
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
217
The rationale for correct citation and 
referencing
Many citation and referencing systems exist and, over time, some 
have been modified to create an even wider array of similar and 
sometimes competing systems. When choosing and using one of 
these, the focus is often on the mechanics – the apparently complex 
and arcane layout and punctuation rules that cause so much angst 
to novice academic authors. However, there is more to following the 
conventions than slavish devotion to pressing the punctuation keys 
in the right places or sprinkling your writing indiscriminately with 
citations. The rationale behind the rules and conventions of citation 
and referencing can be approached via explanations of the key terms 
involved:
1	 Plagiarism. Academic authors demonstrate their scholarship by 
writing and publishing in their own fields. They have the moral right 
to claim such work as their own property (this is sometimes referred 
to loosely rather than in the legal sense as ‘intellectual property’). 
Hence, the academic community requires that academic authors, 
whether undergraduate, postgraduate or researcher, attribute the 
ownership of ideas, text and other forms of work to the original 
writers. There are two intertwined strands to avoiding plagiarism: the 
need to maintain your academic integrity, that is, your honesty, by 
giving correct attribution to sources; and the need to demonstrate 
your critical thinking skills (Ch 17), namely, your ability to analyse 
and synthesise new text from complex information. 
2	 Citation. In the academic environment, citation involves linking 
an idea within a new text to information or data derived from 
another source document and its author(s). This gives recognition 
to the original author by providing sufficient information from 
Details of specific referencing styles
There are many referencing styles, each with very specific rules for 
layout and punctuation. Space precludes detailed descriptions here; 
instead the focus is on principles. The companion text McMillan 
and Weyers (2013) focuses on five of the main styles: American 
Psychological Association, Chicago, Harvard, Modern Languages 
Association and Vancouver, and should be consulted for guidance.
i
218 
Research methods
the publication details so that the reader can locate the original 
document, if they wish. Integration of the ideas of others can be 
done:
–– by direct quotation, that is, writing down what they wrote word for 
word; or
–– by paraphrasing the idea in words that are different from those of 
the original author.
	
Whichever of these methods is adopted, the actual attribution in 
the text, namely, the publishing details, will follow the citation and 
referencing style required for your writing. 
3	 Referencing. There are two usages in the context of academic 
writing: providing information in the text about authorship of the 
original source material; and providing the publication details in 
some kind of footnote, reference list or bibliography in accordance 
with the citation and referencing style being followed. The rationale 
for this is:
–– to protect the ‘intellectual property’ of the original author by 
acknowledging their contribution; and
–– to provide readers with specific bibliographical information.
By structuring and presenting your views with appropriate attention to 
the published evidence, you enhance the quality of your research and 
acknowledge the contribution of others to the literature. Thus, learning 
how to cite and reference is essential to successful academic writing 
and will help you to achieve the highest of standards in your work.
Avoiding plagiarism
Academic literature is produced after extensive study of existing 
publications and developed through applied or theoretical research 
into the topic. The convention has developed that academics in their 
own writing cite the work of others to respect the original thinking 
and consequent ownership of that work – in effect, the intellectual 
property behind it. All academic authors are expected to follow this 
convention. To fail to do so is regarded as unethical. Institutions and the 
departments or schools within them have come to recognise the need 
to mark out their ethical position by having a formal code of practice on 
plagiarism, while some require students sign a disclaimer on their work 
to the effect that the work is entirely of their own making. A statement 
of this kind will be required at the start of your PhD thesis (Ch 30).
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
219
Unfortunately, plagiarism occurs at all levels of study. Some notable 
cases have been reported where the use of search engines, for 
example, has exposed instances years after the plagiarism occurred. 
Whatever the circumstances, the negative consequences can be 
seriously damaging – shame, loss of professional status, loss of 
job, loss of marks, loss of degree and even expulsion from the 
institution. Thus, the pressure on academic authors not to plagiarise 
is significant.
Some people think (wrongly) that plagiarism can be averted by:
●
●creating a patchwork of quotations from original text; or
●
●substituting one or two words with synonyms; or
●
●rearranging the wording of the original text; or
●
●re-ordering the order of sentences; or
●
●mixing any of the above strategies. 
These misconceptions can lead to unintended plagiarism where it 
appears that the writer has simply not understood the conventions and 
practices of engaging with the work of others within their own work. 
Definitions of terms
Some terms connected with referencing, citation and plagiarism are 
loosely used. Here are the definitions adopted for this text.
Citation (noun) – a quotation (a book, its author, or a passage from it) 
as an example or a proof; a mention as an example or illustration.
To cite (verb) – to use a phrase or sentence from a piece of writing or 
speech, especially in order to support or prove something.
Reference (noun) – a direction in a book to another passage or 
another book where information can be found; a book or passage 
referred to.
To reference (verb) – to mention a particular writer or piece of work; to 
create a list of all the books that are mentioned in a piece of academic 
writing.
Plagiarism (noun) – the process of taking another person’s work, 
ideas, or words and using them as if they are your own.
To plagiarise (verb) – to take someone else’s work, ideas, or words 
and use them as if they were your own.
i
220 
Research methods
However, there is a very thin line between unintended and deliberate 
plagiarism.
The right way to avoid plagiarism is to:
●
●cite the work of others when this is due;
●
●quote others’ work where this is appropriate (within limits), with due 
citation;
●
●paraphrase the ideas or text of others, with due citation.
As can be seen, the key is appropriate citation. There can be no 
exceptions to this and you must preserve your academic integrity by 
following this academic convention.
Methods and styles of citation
There are two fundamental ways of citing authors within the text, which 
are used according to your purpose.
1  Information-prominent citation. Here the text provides the idea or 
result first, and then provides the citation. This approach tends to 
be used when the statement being made is regarded as generally 
accepted in the field of study. For example:
Providing enough copies of essential texts is a problem for university librarians and this can 
be a factor in students using the internet as their first research choice (Monaghan, 2012). 
Alternatively, the statement may relate to literature that is less recent 
and which provides the foundation of a thread of research or reasoning. 
For example:
Books have developed from handwritten texts illuminated by scribes to mass produced 
paperbacks that bring the printed word to all (Francis, 1991). 
Note that these examples follow the Harvard style, in which the 
author’s name and the date of publication are given in brackets.
2  Author-prominent citation. Author-prominent citation is used when 
the statement is more recent or contemporary or when the stress is on 
the ownership of the finding or idea, as when comparing two schools 
of thought. For example: 
O’Donnell (2010) surmised that the implications of downloading lengthy texts from the internet 
may infringe the intellectual property rights of authors. Smith (2011), on the other hand. . .
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
221
This example again follows the Harvard style, where the author’s name 
is included as part of the sentence (in this case as the subject of the 
sentence); the date of publication is encased in round brackets and 
follows immediately after the name of the author.
Conveying attitude in citation
When you select an idea to include in your work, it should be because 
of its relevance to your discussion. Therefore, to help direct your reader 
along a particular line of thought and to help build your discussion, 
your choice of verb reporting the authorship of the source material is 
important. This verb choice will be dictated by the function you are 
trying to perform using the source material as supporting evidence. 
Thus, for example, to demonstrate critical thinking (Ch 17), you may 
wish to introduce material to:
●
●provide factual information;
●
●present evidence that is non-controversial and universally accepted;
●
●express opinion;
●
●support or refute ideas or research within your own discussion;
●
●offer alternative viewpoints or approaches – either in agreement or 
contradictory.
Table 20.1 itemises some reasons that govern the decision to cite the 
work of others. These factors can be categorised according to whether 
they mark the beginning of a research theme – the ‘received wisdom’ in 
a particular field, or whether they take a positive or a negative view of 
existing literature, or whether they are outlining processes described in 
How many citations do I need to include?
A whole string of citations does not add to the merit of writing if these 
are not germane to the purpose of discussion in the text. It is better to 
build up a cogent analysis of the existing literature identifying seminal 
works from which to build the framework of your analysis of the 
literature. From there you can then include citations that support your 
particular line of investigation or examine contrasting views or evidence 
with which you may or may not agree. If you look at a few articles in 
your own field, you will obtain a sense of the extent to which multiple 
references are the norm or whether only the more recent publications 
are cited. Following these practices will be important to you in the 
thesis writing process.
?
222 
Research methods
the literature. If there is a single ‘golden rule’, then it is that the citations 
should be relevant to the purpose of the author making the citations.
Whatever your purpose in citing the work of others, in order to 
make the citation, you will have to attribute the idea to the original 
author. However, how you report that work will reflect ‘attitude’ – that 
could be, how the content reflects the work of the original author as 
perceived in the academic world, or how you view the content. Within 
your discussion, it makes a considerable difference to interpretation 
if you report: Brown contended that. . . (meaning ‘disputed in face of 
controversy’) as opposed to: Brown noted that. . . (meaning ‘made 
special mention of. . .’) and both take the reader much further in their 
understanding of the case that has been compiled in the text than 
simply Brown said that. . . or Brown stated that. . .. Table 20.2 provides 
some examples of positive and negative attitude verbs that are 
commonly used to report the work of others in academic texts. 
Table 20.1  Reasons for citing the work of others. Source: This table is 
derived from www.garfield.library.upenn.edu/papers/vladivostok.html 
[Accessed 24 March 2012].
Rationale for 
citation
Positive 
context
Negative context
Processes 
involved
Indicating key 
reading to establish 
the context of work
Validating 
claims in earlier 
literature
Critiquing published 
literature reporting 
earlier research 
Identifying 
methodology, 
equipment, etc.
Acknowledging 
the work of early 
investigators in a 
particular field
Acknowledging 
previous well-
received work 
in a field
Identifying work 
that is not well-
written, or related 
to existing literature
Authenticating 
data and 
classes of fact
Identifying original 
publications in 
which an idea or 
concept was first 
introduced
Identifying 
seminal 
literature
Rejecting the work 
or ideas of others 
(negative claims) 
Alerting 
researchers to 
forthcoming 
work
Identifying the 
original publication 
describing an 
eponymic concept 
or terms such 
as Parkinson’s 
Disease, the Peter 
Principle, Asperger’s 
Syndrome or Boyle’s 
Law
Acknowledging 
priority
Disputing the 
‘priority claims’ 
of others, that is, 
questioning claims 
of ‘ownership’ of 
the instigation of a 
research theme or 
aspect within it or 
of ground-breaking 
achievements
Challenging the 
validity or merit 
of the work of 
others in respect 
of procedural 
methods or data 
interpretation
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
223
Table 20.2  Attitude verbs used to report the work of others. This table 
derives from analysis of academic discourse across a range of disciplines. 
This is by no means comprehensive, but it reflects the diversity of expressions 
used in relation to citing the ideas and work of others. The shading in the table 
illustrates functions (column 3). The upper part of the table deals with positive 
connotations, while the lower part covers negative connotations.
Attitude verb in past 
tense
Definition in present tense
Function(s)
Positive connotation examples
concurred with the view 
supported the view 
be in accord 
concur 
agreeing 
agreeing 
alleged 
asserted 
averred 
declared 
decreed 
professed 
assert without proof
state firmly
declare positively
state emphatically
decide authoritatively
claim forcefully
affirming 
affirming/declaring
affirming 
affirming/alleging
affirming/dictating
affirming/declaring
contended 
claimed 
dispute in face of controversy 
state to be true when open to 
question
alleging/maintaining
alleging/maintaining
explained 
proclaimed  
expounded the view 
make understandable
announce officially and publicly
simplify by giving detail
clarifying/simplifying
clarifying 
clarifying/elucidating
reflected 
make a statement of opinion
commenting/observing
affirmed 
established 
maintain to be true
make of truth based on evidence
confirming/validating
confirming 
conjectured 
guessed 
 
hypothesised 
 
inferred
supposed 
 
surmised 
infer from inconclusive evidence
form an opinion with little 
evidence
believe tentatively without 
evidence
conclude from evidence or facts
consider as a suggestion 
infer without sufficient evidence
conjecturing/surmising 
conjecturing/surmising
 
conjecturing/theorising
 
conjecturing/theorising
conjecturing/
suggesting
conjecturing/guessing
defined something 
as. . .
characterised 
state precise meaning
 
categorise 
describing
 
describing
believed 
accept as true or real
judging
Continued overleaf
224 
Research methods
Attitude verb in past 
tense
Definition in present tense
Function(s)
judged 
 
commented 
held the view 
insisted 
noted 
observed 
opined that. . .
posited the view 
 
stated 
form an opinion through 
reasoning
explain judgementally
have an opinion
express an opinion strongly
make special mention of. . .
understand through known facts
express a view
put forward an idea for 
consideration
express particulars in words
judging/evaluating
 
judging/interpreting
judging/opining
judging strongly 
judging/commenting
judging
judging/stating belief
judging/offering opinion
 
judging/formulating
suggested 
advanced the view 
proposed
present for consideration
bring to notice
put forward for consideration
proposing/suggesting
proposing
proposing/proffering
Negative connotation examples
warned 
recommend caution
advising against
diverged 
take different routes 
differing 
disagreed 
disputed 
 
doubted 
opposed 
to have a different opinion
question on basis of poor 
evidence
consider unlikely
be resistant to an idea
disagreeing with
disagreeing with
 
disagreeing with
disagreeing with
criticised
 
disdained
judge on basis of good and bad 
points
regard with scorn
disapproving
 
disapproving/ despise
questioned the view 
express uncertainty
doubting/ disputing
Thus, your choice of reporting verb reflects your own attitude as well as 
that of the original author. This helps to construct your own argument 
and subliminally leads your reader through the analysis you are 
presenting. Table 20.2 also provides you with choices so that you do 
not ‘wear out’ particular verbs (and your reader/supervisor’s patience) 
by repeatedly using the same wording.
Use of tense in reporting the work of others
Citation of the work of others has to be placed in a time frame. However, 
there is some inconsistency in practice in that some writers use the 
present tense to report the literature while others adopt a simple past 
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
225
tense. Those who favour the present tense might argue that the text is in 
front of the reader and therefore it is acceptable to use the present tense 
(Brown contends that. . .). However, other writers would state that:
●
●the research work has already been done; 
●
●a view has already been presented for consideration by the 
academic world.
Hence, they reason that the simple past tense should be used (Brown 
observed that. . .).
You should ensure that you are consistent in the tense that you use, 
but note that the present tense is used regardless of time-frame to 
describe habitual conditions, for example, ‘traditionalists argue that. . .’.
Secondary citation in reporting the work of others
Secondary referencing occurs when a writer cites a source that they 
have not read themselves. This could be because the original is out 
of print or unavailable to them for other reasons. In this case, the item 
that is cited is the text that they read personally. Formerly, secondary 
citation (secondary referencing) was rare and was discouraged or 
disallowed. This remains the policy in some of the more common 
referencing styles. However, with the ease of access to online literature, 
the incidence of secondary citation has become more prevalent 
and style guides are beginning to acknowledge that this is a fact of 
academic life. Figure 20.1 shows how to cite a secondary reference in 
the text following the Harvard style. However, note that the source that 
should be listed in the references is the text that the writer read, not 
the reference for the unread text. It is advisable to check the guidance 
given in your area since this can differ from one style to another.
An information-prominent secondary citation would be presented as:
One of the most powerful criticisms is that reading on-screen is, for many 
people, a painful activity (Owen, 2007 cited in Peel, 2010).
An author-prominent secondary citation would be presented as:
Owen (2007 cited in Peel, 2010) considered that ‘one of the most powerful 
criticisms of reading on-screen is that, for many people, this is a painful activity’.
Figure 20.1  Two examples of secondary referencing in the Harvard style. 
These examples use the form of words ‘cited in’ but it would be equally acceptable 
to use the form ‘quoted in’ where material had been quoted. Note that secondary 
referencing can be used in paraphrased citations as well as in direct quotations.
226 
Research methods
Quotation techniques
Quoting text directly from source material has a place in academic 
writing in many disciplines, whereas, in others, it is uncommon. If 
used, it is best to be used sparingly since it would be very easy to drift 
inadvertently into plagiarism because too great a proportion of your 
thesis relies on direct extracts from others’ work.
Before you decide to quote from the literature you have sourced, 
you should give considered thought as to why you want to include 
the exact words used by the original author. Some questions to 
contemplate include:
●
●Will this quotation strengthen my discussion?
●
●Will the extract place special emphasis on the author’s findings or 
viewpoint?
●
●Will the extract present a point that could be counter-argued?
●
●Will the words used make the author’s point in a particularly powerful 
way that would be weakened if paraphrased?
Only if your response to any of these questions is ‘yes’, should you 
seriously consider including a quotation.
To quote correctly, you will need to assemble the following: 
●
●the exact words from the text (sometimes described as ‘verbatim text’);
●
●page number(s) or, in the case of journals, volume and page number;
●
●the publication details. Since different citation styles require different 
information, you might need all or only some of the following:
–– author(s)
–– date of publication
–– edition
–– editor(s)
–– title (of book, chapter or article)
–– journal title (if applicable)
–– place of publication
–– publisher.
These details in the main should become a routine part of your 
note-making practice (Ch 8).
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
227
Characteristics of quotations
The layout of quotations can differ from one discipline to another, but 
there are some key guidelines that can help you follow the general 
rules appropriately. Check the conventions in your particular discipline 
or subject area. In general, quotations may be laid out in one of the 
following formats:
●
●Long quotes consist of 30 or more words (some propose 40 words) 
of prose or two lines or more of poetry and should:
–– be indented by five character spaces from the left-hand margin
–– not include quotation marks at the beginning and end (only use 
quotation marks within the original text where these have been 
used in the original text)
–– be printed in single line spacing (although some styles require 
double-line spacing)
–– be followed by the author(s) surname, year of publication and 
page number separated by a full colon (:) or date of publication 
followed by page number printed as p. xx, depending on the 
preferred citation convention.
●
●Short quotes consist of fewer than 30 words and should:
–– be integrated within the sentence
–– include the author(s) name within the sentence where it often 
performs the role of the subject of the sentence. In this case, the 
date of publication would be in round brackets (. . .) immediately 
after the author name; and
–– give the page reference in round brackets (. . .) at the end of the 
quotation in the form p. xx.
When is quotation plagiarism?
As a ‘rule of thumb’ in many disciplines, if more than 10 per cent of a 
piece of work, article or book chapter is devoted to quotation, this is 
regarded is a form of plagiarism. The heavy reliance on the literature as 
a source of words, shows limited original thinking without real analysis 
or discussion of the issues and may even imply lack of understanding. 
However, it should be noted that in some disciplines, for example, 
English literature, more extensive quotation may be expected and 
thus does not constitute plagiarism, unless it has not been correctly 
attributed to its author.
?
228 
Research methods
These two methods are shown in Figure 20.2. Note that there are minor 
variations about punctuation across citation styles, so it is important to 
consult the relevant guidance source to check for any deviations from the 
‘official’ style. 
Quotations are commonly found ‘dangling’, under the title of the 
chapter or in the text, that is, without introduction or context so that 
the reader has no indication of the significance or relevance of the 
words quoted. Expecting your readers to make the connections for 
themselves is not indicative of well-explained logic and discussion. 
Thus, you should ensure throughout your writing that any quotation 
used in the text has a purpose and clear connection to the context in 
which it is found.
An essential prerequisite for monitoring demographic trends is efficient 
garnering of population data which means that the population census is 
essential to this process. Thus, while early records were relatively primitive in 
nature, more recent records that have been derived from computerised census 
data identify the relationship between birth rate and death rate as factors in 
population growth. This is described as the demographic transition model and 
is explained by Kay and Campbell (2011) as comprising 
… four stages: high birth rate with fluctuating but high death rate; high birth
rate with falling death rate; falling birth rate and falling death rate; and low 
birth rate with low death rate.
(Kay and Campbell, 2011:23)
More recent studies have attempted to interrogate the demographic transition 
model in order to identify socio-economic and ethnicity patterns from the 
birth-rate:death-rate data.
(a) Long quotation. This ‘indentation’ method is used where the quote is 30+ 
words or three lines of text. Note the positioning of the citation.
Simpson (1953) claimed that one factor affecting the demographic transition 
model involved ‘the changing roles of women as key contributors to the 
economy since these roles impact on their traditional child-bearing roles’ 
(p.63).
(b) Short quotation. This ‘in text’ method is used where the quote is less than 
30 words or three lines of text. Note the positioning of the citation and that 
the quotation forms a part of the sentence, so the full stop is placed after 
the final quotation mark. This is different from the punctuation required in 
direct speech (the actual words said) in a novel or a newspaper report, for 
example.
Figure 20.2  Layouts for ‘long’ and ‘short’ quotations.
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
229
Summarising and paraphrasing
While quotation must exactly replicate the words in the original work of 
an author, the central concept of both summarising and paraphrasing is 
that writers use their own words rather than those of the original author, 
except in the following situations:
●
●where, within the paraphrase or summary, a direct quotation from 
the source document is used; or
What forms of quotation marks should be used?
Single or double quote marks
Approaches to the use of quotation marks, which are sometimes called 
‘inverted commas’, differ according to whether the text follows British 
English or American English.
■
■British English: Single quotation marks are used around the text to 
mark the exact words spoken or written. Any quote-within-the-quote 
is placed in double quotation marks.
■
■American English: Double quotation marks are used around the 
text to mark the exact words spoken or written. Any quote-within-
the-quote is placed in single quotation marks.
Note that these conventions apply in most cases but there are some 
disciplines which do not follow them. Consult your supervisor if the 
required style differs from these.
‘Curly’ (‘round’) quotes or ‘straight’ quotes
Curly quotes are the inverted comma symbols that were found 
traditionally on typewriters. In word processors, these are sometimes 
referred to as ‘smart quotes’. The single ones look like: ‘this’ and 
double ones look like “this”. They resemble miniature digits 6 or 66 
before the quotation words and digits 9 or 99 after the quotation.
Straight quotes are the inverted comma symbols that are often used 
by word processors as a single downward stroke. The single ones look 
like this: ' and double ones look like this: ". There is no difference in 
form between the straight quotes before and after the quotation. 
Ideally, ‘curly’ and ‘straight’ styles of quotation marks should not be 
mixed within the same document. 
?
230 
Research methods
●
●where there is use of same or similar wording to state aspects that 
are common knowledge, for example, dates, well-known facts or 
anything regarded as published in the public domain in information/
reference sources such as dictionaries or encyclopaedias; or
●
●where ‘shared’, subject-specific language has been reproduced from 
the original.
In both summarising and paraphrasing the final text will be shorter than 
the original text. The point is to distil the essence of meaning from the 
original but with important differences.
1  Summarising: while recognising that technical terms or ‘shared 
language’ can be retained, the aim is to use your own words in writing 
(but giving less detail than in a paraphrase) to
–– give the general idea
–– state the main points briefly
–– include only the views of the original author.
2  Paraphrasing: while recognising that technical terms or ‘shared 
language’ can be retained, the aim is to use your own words in writing 
(but giving more detail than in a summary) to
–– explain the key idea(s)
–– clarify their meaning
–– include only the views of the original author.
The differences between these two approaches to restating the work 
of others are modelled in Figure 20.3. As well as indicating variation in 
content, the examples demonstrate visually the relative difference in 
length. Paraphrasing will reduce the original text but not as much as 
a summary which will be significantly shorter than the original text or 
section.
When you decide to include the work of another in your text, you need 
to treat each citation as unique. As explained above, you will have 
evaluated the text and so have a reason for choosing to incorporate 
material from the literature. This will reflect the function that citation will 
perform within your text – supporting your viewpoint, critiquing other 
views and so on (see Table 20.2). This may also dictate whether you 
wish to introduce an idea in more general terms by summarising or 
elucidate a discussion in greater detail by paraphrasing.
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
231
Table 20.3 provides strategies for summarising and paraphrasing. 
The advantage of summarising and paraphrasing in these ways is 
that there is much less risk of plagiarism because you are using your 
own words and writing style to create the shorter version; you are 
also demonstrating your ability to engage with the material and reach 
conclusions that demonstrate your critical thinking skills (Ch 17). In 
addition, as you become more practised and at ease with the process, 
you will be able to summarise or paraphrase by omitting some of 
the steps. These approaches will also help you to achieve a deeper 
understanding of the text and allow you to exploit the ideas more 
effectively in your own analysis.
A. Original text (51 words)
E-books are a function of the internet era and make access to otherwise 
unattainable material possible to wider audiences. The globalisation of 
literature means that individual authors can present their work to a wider 
audience without incurring abortive publication costs. This facility constitutes a 
considerable threat to publishers of traditional books. [51 words]
Source: Watt, W. (2011) The demise of the book. Cambridge: The Printing Press 
(page 13)
B. Summarised text (19 words)
With the advent of e-books, individual authors are faced with new approaches 
to publication of their work (Watt, 2011).
C. Paraphrased text (40 words)
Watt (2011) notes that there is concern amongst publishers of hard-copy 
printed books that the advent of e-books marks the end of their monopoly of 
the literature market since authors can publish directly from the internet thus 
avoiding publishing costs.
Figure 20.3  Examples of summarised and paraphrased text. Examples A 
and B follow the Harvard Style; B follows information-prominent style and C 
follows author-prominent citation.
232 
Research methods
Table 20.3(a)  Strategies for integrating the work of others in your text. 
McMillan and Weyers (2013) provide real-text examples of using these 
approaches.
A strategy for summarising
Step 1: Identify the main idea or theme
• Read the topic and terminator paragraphs to identify the main ideas of the text.
• Read the topic sentences of the intervening paragraphs allocating a defining 
term to each paragraph to identify and note the main topic, point, argument or 
counter-argument presented within the paragraph. Write these terms as a list of 
words; this list will give you an overview of the content of the whole text.
• Highlight points of particular relevance to your reason for citing this source 
material.
• Go back and read the whole text (or the section most relevant to your own 
purpose).
Step 2: Write out your own version of the text
• Leave the text and do something else for a spell.
• Then return to the task and without looking at your notes and using your 
own words, try to write down your recollection of the main theme(s) and 
complementary points.
• Check your version with your earlier notes; add in anything that you have 
omitted.
Step 3: Reduce the word length
• Using your ‘own word’ version, remove unnecessary words or change word 
order or syntax to create shorter sentences or phrases.
Step 4: Create the summary
• Start by signposting the author, identify the main theme and key points, link 
these to the discussion in your own text. The summary can extend to a number 
of sentences. Either author-prominent or information-prominent formats may be 
used.
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
233
Three different strategies for paraphrasing
1.  Underlining approach
Reduces content in three 
different steps to achieve the 
paraphrase.
Step 1: On a copy of the text, underline 
phrases and words that can be removed, 
either because they are verbose, or because 
they do not suit your purpose.
Step 2: Eliminate those words, leaving the 
‘bare’ relevant text.
Step 3: Reword the remaining text and the 
ideas within.
2.  Reporters’ questions
Allows deconstruction of the 
original text and gives a strategy 
for engaging with the original 
meaning and intention of the 
text.
Step 1: Read the original text.
Step 2: Underline key points of interest.
Step 3: Turn over original, and answer the 
reporters’ questions in relation to the text. 
These are who?, what?, when?, where?, 
why? and how?
Step 4: Use the key elements identified 
in step 3 to reconfigure the text to your 
purpose.
3.  Theme re-grouping 
approach
Allows deconstruction of the text 
by identifying its key themes and 
then rewording and reordering 
these.
Step 1: Paragraph by paragraph, identify the 
theme and key point of each and note these 
down (you may wish to number these, but 
this in not essential). 
Step 2: With reference to your purpose, select 
and reorder the themes, and points (you might 
use a different coloured pen to do this).
Step 3: Write the paraphrase in your own 
words using the key point listing as a 
framework. It is acceptable to use a certain 
amount of shared wording if this is essential 
use of jargon or standard phrases.
Table 20.3(b)  Strategies for integrating the work of others in your text.
234 
Research methods
An outline of referencing styles
As a postgraduate, you will meet a range of referencing styles during 
your literature searching and reading. Being aware of the conventions 
associated with these styles is important as they may differ from those 
with which you are familiar.
Referencing systems can be classified as follows. Note that there are 
many permutations of ‘rules’ or interpretations within each of these 
approaches:
1	 Author name/date (sometimes called parenthetical) systems are 
used in the social sciences and humanities as well as the natural 
sciences. However, there are significant differences about layout and 
language related to these and you should consult the guidelines you 
have been given for your recommended style. For example:
‘Campbell and Hutton (2012) suggested that . . .’
2	 Numeric/footnote plus reference/bibliography list systems are 
used in scientific styles to give information in a numbered footnote 
about authorship on the same page as the citation first appears. 
Numbering may be full-size or superscript. For example:
‘In the view of Campbell and Hutton15. . .’
3	 Author name/page number systems are used in some disciplines 
within the humanities and includes the Modern Languages 
Association – (MLA) style. For example:
‘In the view of Campbell and Hutton (133) observed that. . .’
4	 Numeric systems (sometimes called numbered or scientific systems) 
are used most commonly in the Sciences. It would inadvisable to use 
a system like this unless you have been told to do so. The number 
relates to the number of the reference in the reference list. For 
example:
‘In the view of Campbell and Hutton (15). . .’or ‘In the view of 
Campbell and Hutton15. . .
Figure 20.4 shows typical components of a Reference List or 
Bibliographic entry (sometimes called ‘Works cited’). The layout and 
punctuation differs from one style to another. In practice, authors 
and universities tend to adhere to styles that are the norm for their 
disciplines or the departments within their institutions or the publishers 
of academic journals in their subject area. 
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
235
Five commonly used referencing systems are illustrated in Table 20.4. 
This takes as an example a citation and reference to a journal article, 
but there are specific formats for other forms of publication, each 
differing according to the style adopted. Examples include: books, 
chapters in books, newspaper articles, e-journals, e-books and 
websites extending recently to blogs and wikis. You will find the 
specific details of the relevant styles in McMillan and Weyers (2013) or 
in the ‘instructions to authors’ section of journals.
Anderson, 
C.G. 
2012 
Foamed concrete 
Concrete Today 
4 
(3) pp. 11 - 19 
London 
Home Press
Author family name
Place of publication
(not for journals)
Author initials
Journal title
Publisher
(not for journals)
Date
Title
Volume number
(journals only)
Page(s)
(journals)
Issue number
(journals only)
Figure 20.4  The main components of a reference as listed in a reference 
section (or bibliography or ‘works cited’ section). The precise details of 
order and punctuation will depend on the referencing style used.
Table 20.4  Five commonly used referencing styles. With each is shown the 
format of a citation and reference that would be used when referring to material 
from an article in a journal. For formats used with other types of source, see 
McMillan and Weyers (2013). 
1  American Psychological Association (APA) style This is used in both 
sciences and social sciences. It follows a name/date style. Note that APA 
spacing for the Reference List should be double-line.
In publishing, for example, several notorious cases of plagiarism exist where 
the text and plot of a best seller have close similarities to the text and plot of 
another book by another author (Scribner, 2006).
Scribner, A. (2006). Authorship by proxy: the case of the non-original best-seller. 
Journal of Professional Ethics 2(3), 51–59.
Continued overleaf
236 
Research methods
2  Chicago Style This style is used in the scientific community and social 
sciences where a scientific approach has been followed. It follows a numeric/
footnote style. Note that there are two options for laying out the Footnotes and 
the Reference List:
1. Footnotes are at the bottom of the page beneath a line across the page or 
as a list of endnotes at the end of the text with a full bibliography of all works 
cited at the end of the text. 
2. Full citations in the footnotes or endnotes for the first mention and thereafter 
as concise notes; there is no bibliography.
In publishing, for example, there are several notorious cases where a best seller 
has been shown to be closely similar to another book by another author.2 
Footnote or Endnote
2. Scribner, “Authorship by Proxy: the Case of the Non-original Best-seller,” 
Journal of Professional Ethics, 2, no.3 (2006): 59.
Bibliography
Scribner, A. “Authorship by Proxy: the Case of the Non-original Best-seller.” 
Journal of Professional Ethics 2, no.3 (2006):59.
3  Harvard Style which was not named after the US Harvard University but after 
John Harvard, an American clergyman, who bequeathed his library of books to 
Cambridge College, Massachusetts in 1637. This is one of the most commonly 
used styles and is accepted in disciplines across social and life sciences as 
well as in engineering. It follows the author/date style.
In publishing, for example, there are several notorious cases where a best 
seller has been shown to be closely similar to another book by another author 
(Scribner, 2006).
Scribner, A., 2006. Authorship by proxy: the case of the non-original best-seller. 
Journal of Professional Ethics 2(3), 51–59.
4  Modern Languages Association (MLA) Style as its name suggests is 
designed to suit disciplines in the humanities. It follows the author/page 
number style. Note URLs are no longer used but the medium is included at 
the end of the ‘Works cited’ (MLA term for Reference List). Also, double line-
spacing is required for the reference list in this style.
In publishing, for example, there are several notorious cases where a best 
seller has been shown to be closely similar to another book by another author 
(Scribner 35).
Scribner, A. “Authorship by Proxy: the Case of the Non-original Best-seller.”  
 
Journal of Professional Ethics 2(3) (2006): 51–59. Print.
5  Vancouver Style is most commonly used in the medicine and related fields. 
It follows the numeric (scientific) style. 
In publishing, for example, there are several notorious cases where a best seller 
has been shown to be closely similar to another book by another author. (1)
1. Scribner A. Authorship by proxy: the case of the non-original best-seller. J Prof 
Ethics 2006 Mar 3; 2(3): 51–59.
20  Citing, referencing and avoiding plagiarism 
237
Action points
20.1  Find out about the citation and referencing style 
expected for your thesis work. Your supervisor should be able 
to guide you, or talk through the options, and the format may 
be specified in departmental or university rules. Once you know 
this, you can ensure that you format any citations and reference 
you use in draft text in the correct way, saving a lot of time and 
effort later on. At this stage you should consider whether using a 
referencing software package such as Endnote or Zotaro might be 
a useful strategy (Ch 9).
20.2  Examine your use of language when citing references. 
Use an early report or your project proposal. Do you use the same 
forms of wording repeatedly? Review the options mentioned in this 
chapter to see if you can expand your repertoire and provide more 
variety and accuracy in your writing.
20.3  Look self-critically at some of your writing to check 
whether your skills in summarising and paraphrasing could 
be improved. Do you feel you have mastered these techniques? 
If not, review the points in this chapter and test out some of the 
methods to see which might suit your way of working.
238 
Research methods
How to understand and produce 
graphs, tables and basic statistics
Interpreting and 
presenting data
21
PhD research often calls for detailed examination of results 
portrayed graphically and in tables. In certain disciplines you 
may need to present your own data using these means and then 
interpret what they signify. Often, this can only be done with the aid 
of relevant statistics. 
Key topics
➔
➔How to ‘read’ a graph
➔
➔How graphs can mislead
➔
➔Creating graphs
➔
➔Creating tables
➔
➔Important descriptive statistics
➔
➔Concepts of hypothesis-testing statistics
There are many ways of presenting data sets and the methods chosen 
can affect your analysis or favour certain interpretations. A healthily 
critical approach is therefore essential when you are examining 
graphs, tables and statistics. Equally, when creating these items to 
condense and display your own information, your primary aim should 
always be to do this in a manner that is simple to understand and 
unbiased.
It is beyond the scope of this book to discuss all the possible modes 
of presentation and analysis; instead, this chapter provides a quick 
refresher on data interpretation and outlines the basic principles for 
constructing graphs and tables. The examples are simplified in order 
to demonstrate the processes rather than to illustrate advanced 
content.
21  Interpreting and presenting data 
239
How to ‘read’ a graph
The following elements are present in most graphs and charts 
(collectively known as ‘figures’). Use them to work out what a specific 
graph means, referring to the example shown in Figure 21.1.
●
●The figure title and its caption. These should appear below the 
graph. Read them first to determine the overall context and gain 
information about what the graph shows. If the caption is detailed, 
you may need to revisit it later to aid your interpretation.
Figure 21.1  The basic components of a graph.
Graph types
Some common forms are illustrated throughout this chapter, but a 
quick way of finding out about different options is to explore the forms 
available in a spreadsheet program like Microsoft Excel. Look at the 
‘Insert > Chart > Standard Types’ menu, which illustrates sub-types and 
provides brief descriptions. This is also a good way of exploring ways 
of presenting your own data.
i
240 
Research methods
●
●The type of figure. With experience, you will come to recognise 
the basic chart types (Figure 21.2) and others common in your 
discipline. This will help you to orientate yourself. For example, a pie 
chart is usually used to show proportions of a total.
●
●The axes. Many forms of chart represent the relationship between 
two variables, called x and y for convenience. These are often 
presented between a pair of axes at right angles, with the horizontal 
x-axis often relating to the ‘controlled’ variable (for example, 
concentration or time) and the vertical y-axis often relating to 
the ‘measured’ variable (for example, income, weight (mass), or 
response). More than one measured variable may be plotted on the 
same graph, either using the same x-axis, or a second one (see 
Figure 21.2(b)). Some types of graph don’t follow this pattern and 
if you are unfamiliar with the form being used, you may need to 
investigate further.
Checklist for interpreting a graph
❏
❏Consider the context by reading the title, legend and main text.
❏
❏Recognise the type of graph.
❏
❏Examine what the axes show.
❏
❏Inspect the scale of the axes.
❏
❏Study the symbols and plotted curves.
❏
❏Evaluate what any error bars or statistics mean.
✔
Plural terms
The following plurals are often misused or misunderstood:
Axis = singular;
Axes = plural;
Datum = singular;
Data = plural (hence, the ‘data are presented in Figure 14’).
i
●
●The axis scale and units. An axis label should state what the axis 
means and the units being used. Each axis should show clearly the 
21  Interpreting and presenting data 
241
range of values it covers through a 
series of cross-marks (tic, or tick, 
marks) with associated numbers 
to indicate the scale. To interpret 
these, you’ll also need to know 
the units. Some axes do not start 
from zero, or incorporate a break 
in the scale; others may be non-
linear (for example, a logarithmic 
axis is sometimes used to cover 
particularly wide ranges of 
numbers). Pay attention in these 
cases, because this could mean 
that the graph exaggerates or 
emphasises differences between 
values (see Figures 21.3(a) and (b)).
●
●The symbols and plotted curves. 
These help you to identify the 
different data sets being shown and 
the relationship between the points 
in each set. A legend or key may 
be included to make this clearer. 
Your interpretation may focus on 
differences in the relationships 
and, inevitably, on the plotted 
curves (also known as ‘trend 
lines’). However, it is important 
to realise that the curves are 
usually hypothetical interpolations 
between measured values or, 
worse, extrapolations beyond them; 
and, because they may involve 
assumptions about trends in the 
data, they should be examined with 
care. Symbols may also include 
information about variability in the 
data collected (for example, error 
bars), which provide useful clues 
about the reliability of data and 
assumed trends.
Figure 21.2  Common forms 
of graph. These are in addition 
to the standard plotted curve 
shown in Figure 21.1. (a) Pie 
chart, showing proportions of 
a total – here expressed as 
percentages. (b) Histogram, 
showing amounts in different 
categories. (c) Frequency 
polygon, showing distribution 
of counted data across a 
continuous range.
242 
Research methods
(a) Use of non-zero axis. In the chart on the left, it looks as if the differences 
between males and females are large; however, when the y-axis is zeroed, as 
on the right, the differences are much less noticeable.
(b) Use of different y-axes for different curves. In the chart on the left it looks 
as if sales of product A (left-hand axis) are being caught up by those of product 
B (right-hand axis); however, when the same axis is used for both curves, then 
it can be seen that product B vastly outsells product A.
Figure 21.3  Three common examples of misleading graphs.
(c) Use of a two- or three-dimensional object to represent a linear scale. 
In the chart on the left, the barrel retains its shape in relation to the y-axis 
scale, so it makes it look as if country M produces much more toxic waste than 
country K. On the right, a truly linear representation is shown.
21  Interpreting and presenting data 
243
How graphs can mislead
You can learn a lot about data presentation by reviewing misleading 
graphs and learning why they might lead to incorrect interpretations. A 
selection of examples is shown in Figure 21.3. You should try to avoid 
confusing your audience by using these forms of misrepresentation 
when constructing your own figures.
Creating graphs
What follows is naturally a generalisation, but this sequence will suit 
many circumstances.
1	 Think carefully about what you want to plot and why, then choose 
an appropriate type of graph. Recognising the type of data you want 
to present is essential for this, and reviewing the common options 
shown in Figures 21.1 and 21.2 may help. If you are choosing a 
plotted curve, then you must decide which variable will appear on 
the x-axis and which on the y-axis. If you have selected an unfamiliar 
form of graph, you may wish to sketch out how this will appear for 
your data set. A spreadsheet can be a valuable tool when working 
through this phase.
2	 Consider the range and units for the axes, where appropriate. What 
are the upper and lower limits of your data? Should you start each 
axis at zero, and, if not, will this act to distort the presentation 
(see Figure 21.3(a))? Will your axes be linear? Will they be in the 
same units as your measurements, or might you wish to work 
out ratios, percentages or other transformations before graphing 
the data? Once you have settled on these aspects, you can write 
the descriptive label for the axis, which should first state what is 
Definitions: graphing
Interpolation: an assumed trend or relationship between available data 
points.
Extrapolation: an assumed trend or relationship before or after (below 
or above) available data points. Extrapolation is risky because the 
assumption may be made that a trend will continue when there may be 
little evidence that this will happen.
i
244 
Research methods
presented and then, usually in parentheses ( ) or after a solidus 
(/), the units used. Other forms of graph, such as a pie chart, may 
require a descriptive label for each segment, or you may prefer to 
use a legend or key.
3	 Choose elements of presentation. For example, if you are using a pie 
chart, select colours or shading for the segments. If your graph has 
axes, decide how frequently you wish the tics to appear: too many 
and the axis will seem crowded, too few and it becomes less easy 
to work out the approximate values of data points. Decide which 
symbols will be used for which data sets, and if presenting several 
graphs in sequence, try to be consistent on this. If measures of 
location (Table 21.1) are plotted, consider whether you wish to add 
error bars to show the variability in the data.
Adding trend lines to graphs
If you are drawing a graph, you will need to take special care when 
adding a curve, because any trend line you add indicates that you 
have assumed an underlying relationship between the variables. 
If the points carry no (rare) or very little error, then you may be 
justified in drawing a straight line or curve between each point. If, 
however, the points do carry error, then the curve should take an 
‘average’ line between them. Since most plotted relationships are 
complex, then this probably should be a smooth curve rather than a 
straight line.
✔
4	 Write the figure caption. Your aim should be to ensure that the figure 
is ‘self-contained’ and that its essence can be understood without 
reference to detail normally given elsewhere, such as  
the material and methods section of a scientific report. Items to 
include here are:
–– the figure number and title
–– what the symbols and error bars mean (a legend or key within the 
figure may or may not be acceptable – check)
–– if appropriate, how the plotted curve was chosen
–– any brief details about the data (for example, differences in the 
treatments) that will help your reader understand the figure better 
without having to refer to another section.
	
The title and caption should always appear below the figure.
21  Interpreting and presenting data 
245
Creating tables
A good table presents data in a compact, readily assimilated format. In 
general, you should not include the same data in a chart and a table. 
You might decide to use a table rather than a chart if:
●
●graphic presentation is not suitable for some or all of the data (for 
instance, when some are qualitative);
●
●there are too many data sets or variables to include in a chart;
●
●your audience might be interested in the precise values of some of 
your data;
●
●you wish to place large amounts of your data on record, for instance 
within an appendix to a report.
Think about and draw a rough design for your table before constructing 
a final version. Key elements include:
●
●The title and caption. Your table must have these as a guide to 
the content, just like a figure. Note that the numbering scheme for 
tables is independent from that of graphs. Titles and captions should 
always appear above the table.
●
●Appropriate arrangement and headings. Each vertical column should 
display a particular type of data, and the descriptive headings 
should reflect these contents, giving the units where data are 
quantitative. Each row might show different instances of these types 
of data. Rows and columns should be arranged in a way that helps 
the reader to compare them if this is desirable.
●
●Rulings. The default in word-processing programs such as Microsoft 
Word is to add boxed lines to tables; however, the modern style is 
to minimise these, often restricting their use to horizontal lines only.
●
●Data values. These should be presented to an appropriate number 
of significant figures. An indication of errors, if included, should be 
given in parentheses, and the heading should make it clear what 
statistic is being quoted.
●
●Footnotes. These can be used to explain abbreviations or give 
details of specific cases.
Figure 21.4 illustrates some important components of a well-designed 
table.
246 
Research methods
Important descriptive statistics
Descriptive statistics are used to simplify a complex data set, to 
summarise the distribution of data within the data set and to provide 
estimates of values of the population frequency distribution. Two 
aspects that are often quoted are:
●
●a measure of location – this is an estimate of the ‘centre’ of the 
frequency distribution;
●
●a measure of dispersion – this is an estimate of the spread of data 
within the frequency distribution.
Figure 21.4  The basic components of a table. Note that shading is included 
here to emphasise the heading and data sections and would not usually be 
present.
Definitions: data
Quantitative data: data that can be expressed in numbers, such as 
length, height or price.
Qualitative data: data that are descriptive and non-numerical, such as 
colour, place of manufacture, or name.
i
21  Interpreting and presenting data 
247
Different measures of location and dispersion are outlined in Table 21.1 
and many of these values can be obtained simply, using a spreadsheet 
or statistical program. More complex descriptive statistics such as 
standard error (describing the precision of a mean), or quantifying the 
shape of frequency distributions, are outside the scope of this text and 
a specialist text should be consulted.
Concepts of hypothesis-testing statistics
Hypothesis testing in a statistical context is used to compare the 
properties of a data set with other samples or to compare the data set 
with some theory about it.
Error and variability exist in all data sets (see box below), which means 
that it is impossible to be 100 per cent certain about differences 
between sets. Are the differences ‘genuine’ and due to a true 
Definition: frequency distribution
This is a description of the frequency of occurrence of values of a 
variable. You may be interested in the actual distribution in the sample 
you have taken, and you might use a frequency polygon (Figure 21.2(c)) 
to represent this. You might also be interested in the underlying 
population frequency distribution. This is often theoretical in nature 
and a smooth curve representing a model function might be used to 
represent it.
i
Sources of random error and variability
The following are reasons why the values and hence the descriptive 
statistics of samples of data may vary.
■
■Sampling error, due to the selection of a small number of 
individuals from a larger, variable population.
■
■Measurement error, due to the method of measurement of the variable.
■
■Rounding error, due to an attempt to use an appropriate number of 
significant figures, but often compounded in calculations.
■
■Human error, due to inaccurate writing or copying of data, mixing 
up of samples, and so on.
■
■Error from unknown sources, or unappreciated effects of sampling.
i
248 
Research methods
Table 21.1  Descriptive statistics and their uses
Measure
Statistic
How to calculate*
Uses, advantages and disadvantages
Location
Mean
The sum of all the data values divided by the 
number of values, n.
The most commonly used measure. It takes account of all the values 
in the data set, but can be influenced by the presence of outliers and 
is not representative of the whole body of data if this is asymmetric. 
Units are the same as the data.
Median
The mid-point of the data values when they 
are ranked in numerical order. For odd-sized 
data sets, it is the value of the middle datum, 
while for even-sized data sets, it is the mean 
of the two central values.
May represent the location of the majority of the data better than the 
mean if the data set is asymmetric or there are outliers. Units are the 
same as the data.
Mode
The most common value in the data set.
Easily found and unaffected by outliers; however, especially when the 
data set is small, it may be susceptible to ‘random’ variation in the 
distribution of values. Units are the same as the data.
Dispersion
Range
The difference between the largest and the 
smallest values in the data set.
Easy to determine, but its value is greatly affected by outliers and the 
size of the data set. Units are the the same as the data.
Semi-
interquartile 
range
The difference between the first and third 
quartiles, which are the median values 
for the data ranked below and above the 
median value of the whole data set.
Less easy to calculate than the range, but less affected by outliers 
and the size of the data set. Suitable to match with the median as a 
measure of location. Units are the same as the data.
Variance
The sum of the squares of the difference 
between each data value and the mean, 
divided by n − 1.
Measures the average difference from the mean for all the data 
values. Good for data sets that are symmetrical about the mean. 
Units are the square of those of the data.
Standard 
deviation
The positive square root of the variance.
A measure of the average difference from the mean for all the data 
values. Good for data sets symmetrical about the mean. Units are the 
same as the data, so preferable to the variance.
Coefficient 
of variation
The standard deviation multiplied by 100 and 
divided by the mean.
A dimensionless (%) measure of variability relative to location. Allows 
the relative dispersion of data sets to be compared.
* Note that these statistics are often expressed as mathematical formulae and are usually best calculated using a calculator or spreadsheet package.
21  Interpreting and presenting data 
249
dissimilarity between the samples, perhaps because of a treatment you 
have administered to one of them, or are the differences you observe 
just the result of random errors? Hypothesis testing works by trying to 
put a probability on these alternatives.
The norm is to set up a ‘null hypothesis’ (NH) that says that the samples 
are the same or that they conform to some theoretical description. By 
making certain assumptions about the data, calculating a hypothesis-
testing statistic, and looking up tables of probability (or calculating), you 
can find the probability P of the NH being true. The lower P, the less 
likely you are to accept it in favour of the hypothesis that the differences 
were ‘real’ and due to your treatment or a genuine difference between 
the samples. Conventionally, if P < 0.05, then the NH is rejected.
Hypothesis-testing statistics differ in their assumptions about the data 
and what they set out to test. Some common ones and their uses are:
●
●t-test – for comparing two means;
●
●x2 (chi squared) test – for comparing observed against expected 
values;
●
●analysis of variance (ANOVA) – for comparing several means.
Precise details can be found in specialist texts.
Parametric and non-parametric statistical tests
The former make the assumption that the data are distributed 
according to a particular mathematical function, usually the so-called 
‘Normal’ function; the latter make no assumptions of this kind, but are 
less powerful in distinguishing between samples that differ marginally.
i
Action points
21.1  Look at the chart options within Microsoft Excel. 
Knowing your way round this program, or a similar spreadsheet 
tool available to you, and finding out what it offers will help you 
to choose the most appropriate chart and presentation for your 
purposes. Where the output does not meet the expectations at 
the highest level in your discipline, you will need to learn how to 
manipulate chart formats to suit.
250 
Research methods
21.2  Find out how tables are normally presented in your 
discipline. This may vary, for example in the use of cell borders 
and lines, and you will probably be expected to adopt the style 
evident in text and journal articles in your area. If in doubt over a 
specific example, ask a colleague or your supervisor.
21.3  Research further on relevant statistics for your discipline. 
Many people come to study at higher degree level with perfectly 
sound knowledge of data handling. However, for some, their new 
study will take them to areas outside their ‘comfort zone’ and one 
such area might be statistical analysis. If you are in this position, 
then, when scoping your research and your approach to your 
study, identify the nature of data handling that might be required. 
If you need to go beyond simple descriptive statistics which 
would probably be within most people’s competence at this level, 
then it might be wise to factor in time for an intensive course on 
basic statistics. This will not necessarily equip you with a highly 
sophisticated level of ability in statistics but it should be enough 
to allow you to know what kinds of questions can be answered by 
interrogation of data and, perhaps with help, to apply the means to 
achieve this.
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
251
22
How to obtain and analyse 
non-numerical information
Aspects of qualitative research
Qualitative research methods are commonplace in a wide range 
of arts, social sciences and scientific research work. This chapter 
explores the rationale for obtaining descriptive data, outlines some of 
the main techniques used to obtain them, and suggests appropriate 
ways of analysing and presenting such data.
Key topics
➔
➔Theoretical perspectives
➔
➔Key features of qualitative research
➔
➔Qualitative research methods
➔
➔Conducting face-to-face research
➔
➔Coding and analysing data
Qualitative research methods are those investigative approaches whose 
outcomes are summarised as textual information, in contrast with 
quantitative methods where results are usually summarised numerically 
(Ch 23). Qualitative approaches have wide application and are especially 
useful when examining complex information that needs to be disentangled 
in order to make sense of it. Typically, this might entail scrutinising:
●
●opinions, feelings, and values (for example, in Political Science, 
Social Policy, Philosophy);
●
●participant interpretations and responses (for example, in Sociology, 
Psychology);
●
●behavioural patterns (for example, in Ethnography, Anthropology, 
Geography);
●
●processes and patterns (for example, in Education, Economics, 
Biology); 
252 
Research methods
●
●case studies including critical incidents (for example, in Nursing, 
Education). 
Although you may have used some of these methods at an earlier 
stage in your studies, at PhD level it is essential to have a thorough 
understanding of the theoretical base from which qualitative study 
methods have grown.
Theoretical perspectives
In qualitative research, there is recognition that interpretation is 
conducted according to a set of values belonging to the researcher. 
However, a range of theoretical perspectives apply to evaluating 
information of this type. A good starting point when scoping your 
study would be examination of four commonly used observational 
approaches.
●
●Field research. This approach to qualitative research involves 
the collection, analysis and description of data from natural 
environments beyond the laboratory. The method requires 
methodical and detailed note-making that is then coded before it 
can be analysed and the phenomena described. Field work research 
is used in many disciplines and can be part of the process of some 
of the approaches listed below. The nature of collecting, coding, 
analysing and describing will differ according to discipline and 
context.
●
●Ethnography. This is based on participant observation and is a 
form of field research. In this approach, groups or organisations 
are observed in their natural contexts over a relatively short period. 
Members of such groupings share common experiences whether by 
virtue of social context, location or practices and it is the behaviours 
manifested in their mutual experience that make them of interest to 
the researcher.
●
●Grounded theory. This is ‘real life’ research that is ‘grounded’ on 
observation in group contexts. The process does not begin with 
a hypothesis (Ch 3) but starts with general questions that may be 
further refined and that can lead to the creation of more questions 
as ideas develop over time. The data generated are analysed and 
tentatively linked to theoretical concepts, new or existing. Later in 
the process core aspects and relationships between these and their 
associated theoretical underpinning are identified.
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
253
●
●Phenomenology. This is an observational technique that involves 
longer-term, detailed study of smaller groups of people. Several 
schools of thought exist regarding this approach but the common 
focus is on philosophical thinking about the essential questions of 
how to define being and knowledge. In its practical application the 
phenomena studied relate to participants’ subjective interpretations 
of experiences and the world surrounding them, sometimes called 
their ‘lived experience’. The phenomenologist tries to reach a better 
understanding of these experiences.
These four approaches have their origins in the Sciences, 
Anthropology, Sociology and Philosophy respectively. It is beyond 
the scope of this book to examine the theoretical underpinnings of 
qualitative enquiry in detail, but you may find it useful in making your 
decision about the best ‘fit’ for your study to consult one of the seminal 
works on aspects of qualitative research. Frequently recommended 
texts are: Cohen et al. (2007), Denzin and Lincoln (2005), Robson 
(2011) and Strauss and Corbin (2007).
Key features of qualitative research
Qualitative research is generally exploratory in nature. It is especially 
important in the social sciences, where its aim is often to understand 
the complex reasons for human behaviour. Different approaches can be 
adopted.
●
●Case studies. (For example, ‘Student X described her experience on 
her first day at university as. . .’.)
Learning about qualitative research theory
Your supervisor may suggest a well-established approach to your 
research, following common practice in your discipline. In this case, 
writing about the research methodology can be done at the outset 
in a well-defined methods section. In other instances, the qualitative 
research approach to be adopted may not become clear until the 
research is under way and so it may be necessary to delay writing up 
the theoretical methodology. This does not mean that researching and 
developing an understanding of the qualitative research options should 
be delayed: reaching a deep understanding of these complex thought-
processes can be lengthy and sometimes difficult.
✔
254 
Research methods
●
●Interviews. (For example, ‘Interviewee A explained that, after seeing 
the video, his reaction was. . . This could be interpreted as. . .’.)
●
●Focus groups. (For example, ‘One group member stated that her 
experience of peer marking was. . .’.)
Qualitative research generally involves individuals or small samples, 
in contrast to the large randomly selected samples favoured in 
quantitative research (Ch 23). These small samples may be carefully 
selected, and they may not be representative of the population 
as a whole, but that is not always an issue, because in many 
cases the value of qualitative research derives from the authentic 
and case-specific detail that it can encompass. The information 
obtained is potentially richer and deeper than that described in 
numbers and statistics, and can take advantage of the many subtle 
ways of using language to express opinions, experiences and 
feelings. On the other hand, these properties may mean that it is 
less easy to compare different responses and arrive at generalised 
conclusions.
Qualitative and quantitative research methods (Ch 23) are not mutually 
exclusive and may be used in the same investigation. For example, 
mixed types of data may be obtained as in a survey eliciting free-text 
responses and expressions of opinion on a Likert scale.
Avoiding survey questions that lead or restrict the 
answers
If you conduct qualitative research appropriately, the participants 
providing information are less likely to be ‘led’ by the questions asked 
than they may be with the quantitative approach. For example, a 
free-text question in a survey that neutrally asks for the participant’s 
opinion of a political leader does not lead or restrict the respondent 
in the same way as a Likert-scale question that asks them to grade a 
leader on his or her response to a specific political issue (Ch 23). When 
sequencing interview questions, care needs to be taken to ensure that 
an early question does not place a particular idea or concept in the 
respondent’s mind, thereby affecting their response to a later question. 
Therefore, you should try to move your questions or prompts from the 
general to the specific; for example, by asking participants for their 
opinions on a wide issue without prompting, then, later, asking them to 
comment on specific aspects of interest to you.
✔
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
255
Qualitative research methods
This section describes techniques used in the most common types 
of investigation. If your discipline favours a different or modified 
technique, then consult relevant texts such as those suggested earlier 
in this chapter.
Observation and description
This category includes a wide range of approaches where the 
investigator will examine an artefact, person or location and describe it 
in words. A narrative (outline of developments through time) might also 
fall into this classification. Examples of suitable topics include:
●
●primary source material such as that found in an historical document;
●
●a biological habitat;
●
●a patient’s symptoms;
●
●a drawing, painting or installation; 
●
●the acculturation process among immigrants.
The specific detailed features to be reported will depend on your 
discipline and research area. Discussing these with your supervisor 
is advisable before proceeding too far with your research. Although 
description is sometimes categorised as a ‘lower-level’ academic 
thought process, the interpretations and generalisations that follow 
involve higher-level skills (Ch 17). For example, a detailed description 
you produce may be referred to when you are drawing conclusions 
about a wider topic.
Bias in qualitative research
Qualitative research, by its very nature, implies a degree of bias. 
However, maintaining objectivity is as important in the conduct of 
the research as it is in reporting findings. It is important, therefore, to 
recognise the tensions that can arise between objectivity and bias. This 
is particularly relevant when selecting cases to study, aspects to report 
and language to describe observations. Observer preconceptions, 
value systems and cultural influences also need to be taken into 
account. Examination of the theoretical bases for this type of research 
(see above) can help to tease out these issues to achieve an objective 
appraisal of your research problem.
✔
256 
Research methods
Sometimes your purpose may involve comparing several sources of 
information. A useful technique when doing this is to create a table or 
grid where the columns represent the different sources and entries in 
the rows summarise the specific features of interest. In some cases, 
this matrix could be adapted for use in your thesis, but it would also be 
useful when writing a summary of the key features of the sources.
Observations can generate large amounts of data. As with references 
and other source materials (Ch 9), you will need a well-organised 
system for filing data, constructing databases and recording your 
analyses. This is best decided upon before starting the research or 
perhaps immediately following a pilot or initial research exercise.
Example of a matrix approach to comparative 
description
The introduction to a student’s thesis might involve comparing the 
health systems of several countries. Having carried out background 
reading and scan-read through selected documents, he or she 
might be able to come up with a list of key aspects to compare (for 
example, the nature of health care provision, the source of funding, 
the entitlement to free health care, private health care provision, or the 
nature of specialist care). This list could form the basis of a matrix (grid) 
comparing the different aspects, following a more detailed reading of 
the documents. In drawing up such a table, you should bear in mind 
that similarities may be just as important as differences.
✔
Use photography or scans to record complex 
information
Photos might be valuable for a field study, for example, by acting as 
a prompt when you start to write up. Another use could be recording 
notes made by a focus group on a whiteboard. Scans might assist 
when collating large numbers of documents. If photographing people, 
you may need to seek ethical approval (Ch 19) and possibly create a 
suitable permissions form.
✔
Surveys and questionnaires
Both qualitative and quantitative approaches may be used in surveys 
and questionnaires (Ch 23). The main qualitative research technique 
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
257
is to ask an ‘open’ question, such as ‘What do you think about the 
proposed phonic reading system?’ or ‘Do you have any further 
comments about local policing?’ These questions tend to produce a 
variety of responses from a blank response to very detailed answers. 
Responses to open questions can be useful to enrich a report with 
authentic quotes illustrating representative points of view or opposing, 
polarised viewpoints. In some instances, this apparently qualitative 
material can be converted into quantitative information. Quantitative 
summaries (Ch 23) may be useful for establishing some of the 
background to research findings. Pilot studies (see below) are useful 
for working out what types of information might be valuable.
Interview-based case studies
Qualitative research often draws on individuals’ experiences of events, 
processes and systems. These can be reported as case studies. In 
one ideal sense, such investigations might be carried out without 
preconception by allowing the participant to provide a completely 
unstructured and uninterrupted stream of thought, with conclusions 
drawn following examination of the information obtained. In practice, 
you will use a body of prior knowledge and experience to structure 
an interview through a series of prompting questions. If you use a 
similar template for each case study, comparisons will be possible, 
so it is important to think this through beforehand. You also need 
to think carefully about how you are going to gather and record this 
information, for example, by audio- or video-recording, remembering 
that this might require transcription into printed format.
Value of pilot studies
In qualitative research, a pilot study is usually a preliminary study 
conducted on a small scale. This will:
■
■give you a chance to work through your approach to identify 
inconsistencies or weaknesses; 
■
■help you decide which background demographic information will be 
required to correlate with participant responses;
■
■help you decide how you will analyse the results, and whether you 
need to adjust the approach because of this.
Not only does this save time in later face-to-face interview or focus 
group meetings, but it can help to identify possible discussion threads 
for these meetings and analytical approaches to the results.
✔
258 
Research methods
Case studies are sometimes presented in your final text in a 
self-contained text-box. If these are numbered, you can refer to them 
in the thesis text using the same conventions as figures and tables 
(Ch 21). There are layout rules for presenting quotes from sources 
in an academic document (Ch 20) and these should be adhered to 
consistently. Consult your supervisor if uncertain.
Focus groups
These are small discussion groups (four to six members are 
considered ideal), where participants are asked to comment on an 
issue or, for business purposes, a product or marketing tool. Focus 
groups allow you to take account of several viewpoints at a time, and 
to observe the outcomes of open and dynamic discussion among 
focus group members. Potential pitfalls include biasing any comments 
by leading the discussion yourself, or the tendency for focus group 
members to conform to a middle view if they fear exposing a minority 
opinion.
As focus group moderator, you should have thought through a list of 
discussion topics or questions related to your research interest. You 
should also intervene in the discussion to prompt new topics or bring 
the discussion back to the point, because a recognised danger is that 
the group drifts substantially ‘off message’. Again, you need to think 
ahead about how you intend to record the information; good focus 
group practice involves the use of a scribe who is not a member of the 
group. Alternatively, you can let the group itself summarise its thoughts 
(see below).
Action Research
Academic departments often encourage students to undertake 
studies grounded in ‘local’ issues. In such instances ‘Action Research’ 
approaches are popular. These are particularly common in the ‘caring’ 
disciplines such as Nursing, Social Work and Teaching. The focus is 
directed on the context of the researcher’s practice and a problem or 
situation within it which requires better understanding and, possibly, 
identification of some change to resolve or improve that situation or 
practice. This approach requires planning of the research approach, 
perhaps through data collection or observation; analysis and reflection 
through reference to theory; and, ultimately, a recommendation for 
action.
i
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
259
Conducting face-to-face research
It is important to select your interviewees or focus group participants 
carefully, since this could bias the results. Choose participants 
according to a defined set of criteria, having discussed what these 
might be with your supervisor beforehand. For example, you might 
wish to interview people involved at all stages in a business process 
(shop-floor, administrative, management, marketing and customer); or 
a balanced set of students of both sexes representing different levels 
of study. You will need to provide details of the selection criteria in your 
thesis methods section (Ch 28). Record relevant participant details 
(either obtained beforehand as part of the selection process or by 
asking participants to complete a short questionnaire at the start of the 
meeting).
Before your planned interview or focus group activity, ensure that 
conditions are suitable for the type of research activity you intend 
to conduct. Make sure the meeting room is in a convenient and 
quiet location. Offer refreshments where appropriate. For lengthy 
Ethical and data protection dimensions for 
qualitative research
There are both ethical and data protection dimensions to interviews, 
focus groups and case studies derived from them. It is important 
that you read the material in Chapter 19 and follow your university’s 
rules and regulations carefully, as detailed in your institution’s ethical 
guidelines. You may be required to:
■
■tell participants about the purpose of your study;
■
■obtain signed clearance from participants to use the information 
they provide in your research, especially where this may be reported 
externally;
■
■store participants’ personal data appropriately and for a limited time 
only; 
■
■gain agreement of participants before recording their input and give 
guarantees about confidentiality and destruction of recorded audio/
video material after transcription.
If children are involved, you may need special clearance (the nature of 
which may be region-dependent). Your supervisor should be able to 
advise on this.
i
260 
Research methods
sessions, include a comfort break. Think carefully about the seating 
arrangements, as this could contribute significantly to the success of 
your interview or focus group. It is important to consider a layout where 
people feel comfortable with each other since this could contribute 
significantly to the success of your interview or focus group. Figure 
22.1 illustrates a good seating arrangement for individual interviews.
For focus groups, interactions among participants are said to be better 
if a ‘closed circle’ arrangement is used (Figure 22.2). In Figure 22.2(a), 
the scribe (S) and the moderator/researcher (M) are seated within the 
group whereas in Figure 22.2(b), the moderator/researcher and the 
scribe are positioned outside the focus group circle. It might be helpful 
to provide a whiteboard (W) or flipchart so that one participant from 
the group can act as a recorder (R). The whiteboard addition is shown 
in Figure 22.2(b), but could also be offered as a facility in the layout 
depicted in Figure 22.2(a).
One common denominator of the circle arrangement is that all 
members of the group can have full view of and make eye contact 
with all other participants. However, both layouts have advantages 
and disadvantages. One disadvantage of the Figure 22.2(a) format is 
that the researcher is part of the group and thus has the potential to 
influence group members by body language or by making interjections 
to the discussion. However, Krueger and Casey (2000) regard the 
integration of the moderator as a beneficial feature since their physical 
presence in the group allows them to observe interactions, interpret 
body language and prompt development of the discussion while not 
expressing a personal viewpoint.
Positioning the moderator and scribe outside the focus group as in 
Figure 22.2(b) allows the group to interact spontaneously without 
Figure 22.1  Suggested seating arrangement for one-to-one interviews. In 
those situations people often feel more comfortable sitting at right angles to 
each other, rather than sitting on opposite sides of a table or sitting side by 
side. Thus, in this example, researcher (R) sits at the shorter end of the table 
and participant (P) sits at the longer side.
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
261
the intervention of the moderator. It is argued that this encourages 
the free flow of ideas and reduces influence from the moderator. A 
disadvantage is that it makes it less easy for the researcher to observe 
and interpret visual signals among the group members.
It is a good idea to write out an agenda for the interview and a list of 
question ‘prompts’; if conducting a series of interviews, this may help 
when trying to ensure comparability. You may wish to start with a few 
questions to put the interviewee(s) at ease. These might stem from 
responses in a pilot study, if you have done one, and can serve to 
produce background information to ‘situate’ the case. The remainder of 
the question set should be defined by the aims of the project, smoothly 
moving from general topics to the specific.
Careful note-taking and fact-checking are important in interviews, focus 
groups and case studies. Most people find it difficult to act as both 
interviewer and scribe. In any case, good secretarial skills would be 
required to write down every spoken word. You could ask a friend to 
act as scribe for you to allow you to focus exclusively on the questions 
and moderating the session. However, it would be useful to discuss 
the note-taking strategy with your scribe beforehand to ensure that the 
data they record is what you require. This might even involve trying a 
‘dry run’ to clarify exactly what both scribe and moderator/researcher 
expect from the approach.
The following tips may be useful during the meeting itself:
●
●Start by introducing yourself. Explain the purpose of the event 
and confirm the approximate length of time that you envisage the 
activity will take. If appropriate, invite the participants to introduce 
themselves to each other.
Figure 22.2  Two seating arrangements for a focus group. M = moderator; 
S = scribe; R = participant-recorder; W = whiteboard.
262 
Research methods
●
●Develop some means of identifying participants. When noting oral 
data, some researchers prefer to identify participants anonymously 
(for example, by giving them name tags or sticky label letters A, B, 
C, etc.), arguing that this emphasises anonymity from the outset. 
Other researchers feel that this approach is depersonalising and 
stultifies contributions. Therefore, they prefer to provide students with 
identifying labels or name tags on which are printed their first names. 
Either way, identifying contributors allows you to specify in your notes 
who said what and to link an individual’s separate comments together.
●
●Take notes. Video or sound-record the discussion or ask a friend 
to act as scribe for you. Some researchers also encourage group 
participants to record their thoughts on a white board. If you decide 
to do this, you could photograph the notes as part of the record of 
the discussion.
●
●Use ‘question probes’ to encourage participants to develop the 
discussion further. For example, you might ask, ‘Could you expand 
on that point a little further?’ or ‘What do you mean by x?’ One of 
the strengths of interactive qualitative research lies in the flexibility 
it offers to explore areas that might be rich in the research context 
but which might not have been anticipated in the question bank 
created by the researcher/moderator. Therefore, make sure that 
your programme allows participants some scope to comment freely 
but within the time schedule. Otherwise, your interventions should 
Consider using technology to support your 
interviews
With the permission of the participants, some researchers make audio- 
or video-recordings of the interview or focus group dialogue rather than 
take notes, preferring to stimulate a more natural discussion by simply 
observing the participants in the discussion. Some people do appear to 
relax more in these situations where there is no overt note-taking going 
on. If you opt to use recording methods, ensure that you:
■
■know how to operate the technical equipment;
■
■have practised using it beforehand;
■
■have checked it out on the day before the session begins to ensure 
that you will be able to hear the recording clearly on replay; 
■
■have sufficient battery power and recording capacity for the whole 
period of the interview.
✔
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
263
only be made to ensure that you keep to the schedule and that the 
participant(s) do not digress significantly from the subject – be aware 
of the danger of ‘leading’ the group. If a digression does occur, then 
use your question cues as a means of re-focussing the discussion 
along the lines of your planned prompts.
●
●Stick to the pre-arranged time. You may want to run other 
interpersonal research activities and if you earn a reputation for 
taking up more time than you stated, these or other participants may 
decline to be involved further in your research.
●
●Thank the participants for their time and contributions at the end of 
the session. This is, of course, a matter of good manners: if you fail 
to observe the courtesy of thanking your participants, they or others 
in the target category may be less enthusiastic about assisting your 
research in future.
●
●Confirm details. After you have written up the interview, it is good 
practice to check the details you have recorded with the interviewee. 
For focus groups this might best be accomplished during the event 
by a staged approach where checks are made before moving on or 
by asking supplementary questions to clarify details.
Coding and analysing data
In analysing and presenting qualitative data, a key aim is to represent 
the material in a balanced and rational way. Do not be tempted to 
select only examples, answers or quotes that support your view. One 
way to prevent this tendency is to ‘code’ your data. To do this, you 
need to identify themes or patterns before you begin and allocate a 
code to each one. As you continue to process the data, other themes, 
patterns and behaviours may become apparent; similarly assign a code 
to these. Note also that while certain of your coding categories may 
expand, other anticipated categories may prove to be less significant.
Examples of studies where coding can be a 
valuable technique
Coding can be valuable in diverse investigations across many 
subjects, including, for example: recording subject behaviour on 
interview, describing animal mating behaviour, analysis of questionnaire 
responses, recording patterns of plants across an ecosystem transect.
i
264 
Research methods
Analysing your data will depend on format, content and time available 
to do this. In one approach, the process can be divided into two 
stages. In the first stage, go through the recorded data highlighting 
coded items and noting the code in the margin if appropriate. At the 
next stage, prepare record cards or a table to note:
●
●the code and sub-code for what you are recording (according to the 
key you have decided upon);
●
●details of the source’s identity (could be, for example, a respondent 
or location);
●
●description of the source (could be, for example, a verbatim 
transcript, paraphrased transcript, comments, numerical information, 
photograph details).
This can be used to analyse a transcript or record, by entering the 
relevant information as you go through the data. For transcripts and 
records this process can be time-consuming and it is probably better 
to go through all the data for one code at a time and repeat for the next 
code and so on. Trying to transcribe all the codes for one transcript 
or record in a single sweep could be extremely time-consuming and 
complex, leading to error.
Once you have coded your transcript, record or raw data, you will be 
in a better position to judge the distribution of the data and thereby 
create a more balanced summary of your findings; this will also help 
you to identify ‘outlier’ events as such, where these occur. In some 
cases, the analysis may be aided by a basic summary of the codings 
and sub-codings using appropriate descriptive statistics (Ch 21), 
which may be more easily calculated if the codes are first entered on 
a spreadsheet. In other instances, it will be sufficient to unpack the 
coding and sub-coding elements as compatible or linked themes or 
groups that reflect the disparate nature of the data. This will enable 
you to write a tight and well-balanced report of your findings. Note that 
you should not discount those categories which transpired to be less 
significant than you had anticipated, but should consider why this is 
the case. Where you have used quantitative data collection to obtain 
parallel or analogous information, compare these findings with the 
qualitative data looking for inconsistencies as well as confirmations.
22  Aspects of qualitative research 
265
Looking for non-verbal information
Responses other than words may be relevant to your investigation, 
such as facial expressions, eye contact, voice tone and body language. 
If so, you may be able to develop a coding system for these, and 
include some record of them in your notes. This information could be 
important in your interpretation and reportage of the data.
Action points
22.1  Seek out and try to learn from ‘model’ approaches to 
your topic. Investigate theoretical foundations for qualitative 
research applications by consulting your library or some of the 
sources suggested in this chapter. Whether you are writing a 
description, conducting a focus group or carrying out a case 
study, you should be able to find, perhaps with the help of your 
supervisor, a published study carried out in a similar way. Identify 
and examine the theoretical approach that has been applied. 
Consider whether this could be adopted for your own investigation. 
Also, study the ways the results have been analysed and presented 
to see if these might be suitable for your own findings.
22.2  Plan a set of question ‘prompts’ and possible ‘question 
probes’ for interviews and focus groups. If your investigation 
involves either of these approaches, it will be worthwhile setting 
out a sequence of question prompts as the framework for your 
face-to-face meeting. If you also note your reasons for asking the 
question, this will ensure that you garner material that is germane 
to your research project rather than a lot of interesting but possibly 
less relevant data.
22.3  Investigate potential methods of recording interview 
and focus group interaction. Think about the equipment and 
related facilities that might be available to you personally or ask 
about what you might be able to borrow from your supervisor or 
department. Test it so that you have a clear idea of how it should 
be used and that you can operate it competently.
✔
266 
Research methods
23
How to obtain and analyse 
numerical data
Aspects of quantitative research
Quantitative research methods are commonplace in the sciences, 
but are also relevant to some non-science subjects. This chapter 
explores the rationale for obtaining numerical data and presents 
some of the main techniques used to obtain them. It also outlines the 
most appropriate ways of analysing and presenting these data.
Key topics
➔
➔Key features of quantitative research
➔
➔Quantitative research methods
➔
➔Analysing and presenting your results
Quantitative research methods are defined as investigative approaches 
resulting in numerical data, in contrast to those methods resulting 
in qualitative textual information. Quantitative research is especially 
valuable when:
●
●obtaining measurements (for example, in Biochemistry and 
Physiology);
●
●estimating error (for example, in Physics and Engineering);
●
●comparing information and opinions (for example, Sociology and 
Psychology); 
●
●testing hypotheses (for example, in most investigative science 
disciplines).
The ideal in this type of research is for the investigator to be detached 
and impartial to the results of the study.
Quantitative and qualitative research methods are not mutually 
exclusive and may be used in the same investigation. For example, a 
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
267
full description of a sampling environment may be vital to make sense 
of numerical data obtained within it.
Key features of quantitative research
Quantitative research is generally ‘conclusive’ in nature. It is 
especially important in the sciences, where its aim may be to provide 
a reliable value for a measurement or to test a hypothesis. A number 
of approaches can be adopted.
●
●experiments – for example, ‘Treatment A resulted in a statistically 
significant increase in weight gain compared with the control’;
●
●measurements – for example, ‘The average insect wing length was 
3.40 mm with a standard error of 0.14 mm, n = 24’;
●
●surveys and questionnaires – for example, ‘Over 45 per cent of 
respondents agreed with this statement’.
In quantitative research, your aim would usually be to base results 
on large unbiased samples. Large sample size is important to ensure 
that measurements based on the sample are representative of the 
population as a whole, and to improve your chances of arriving 
at a statistically significant conclusion. However, time or resource 
limitations on your research may limit the sample size you can use in 
practice.
Population and sample
Although these terms are used frequently in normal language, they 
have special meanings in quantitative research and statistics.
Population – the whole group of items that might be part of a study: 
for example, all men in the UK; all individuals of a species of bivalve 
mollusc on a particular beach; all Birmingham householders who use 
gas as a heating fuel.
Sample – a sub-set of individuals from a specific population, for 
example, the 28 men whose blood sugar level was measured and 
compared with that of 34 who had taken drug X for five weeks 
beforehand; the 50 bivalves collected from beach A, measured and 
compared with a similar sample from beach B; the 45 householders 
selected for telephone interview about their satisfaction with the service 
provided by their energy supplier.
i
268 
Research methods
Bias in quantitative research
Obtaining numbers to describe your results reduces subjectivity and 
allows comparisons between data sets. The inherent objectivity of 
quantitative research relies, however, on an unbiased approach to 
data collection. Some critics of the quantitative approach claim that 
experiments, surveys and the like are rarely entirely free of observer 
bias, even if this is unintentional.
Bias can be defined as a partial or one-sided view or description of 
events. Although the aim is usually to reduce bias as far as possible, 
it can arise because of subconscious decision(s) of the experimenter, 
which can mean that individuals selected for observation or experiment 
do not represent the population, or that values or measurements 
associated with them are skewed in a particular way. 
Numerical results can be analysed with statistical techniques (Ch 21). 
These allow you to compare sets of observations or treatments, to 
test hypotheses and to allocate levels of probability (chance) of your 
conclusions being right or wrong. These are powerful tools and lie at 
the heart of much scientific scholarship.
However, just because you can measure something, or can compare 
data sets, this does not mean your conclusions are certain or relevant. 
For example, many scientists accept the conclusions of their studies on 
the basis that there could be a 5 per cent chance of their being wrong, 
so, on average, this will be the case 1 in 20 times (Ch 21). Moreover, 
even when a hypothesis is accepted as correct, the results may apply 
only to the very artificial experimental or observational environment. 
Statistical significance should not be confused with significance in the 
sense of ‘importance’ or ‘value’.
Objectivity versus subjectivity
Objectivity is the ability to arrive at a detached, unprejudiced 
viewpoint, based on the evidence and without the influence of feelings 
or emotion (the object = the thing observed).
Subjectivity is the ability to arrive at a viewpoint that takes account 
of personal impressions, feelings and interpretations (the subject = the 
observer).
i
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
269
Quantitative research methods
This section describes methods used in the most common types of 
investigation. If your discipline favours a different or modified method, 
then consult relevant texts.
Experiments
An experiment is a contrived or designed situation where the 
experimenter attempts to isolate the effects of changing one variable 
in the system or process, and then compares the results with the 
condition where no change has occurred. The aim behind many 
experiments is to establish causality – that is, to establish that a 
change in factor A causes a change in variable B. Experiments can 
also help elucidate in more detail how A causes B (see tip later in this 
chapter on correlation and causality).
Experiments are at the core of the ‘scientific method’, in which an 
experiment is set up that will allow a hypothesis to be accepted 
or rejected (Ch 3). Much of the progress in the modern world has 
been made through scientific advances based on experiments. 
Nevertheless, it is useful to recognise some limitations and 
difficulties:
●
●The situations required to allow manipulation of relevant variables 
are potentially artificial. Indeed, they may be so contrived as to be 
unnatural, making any conclusions of dubious value.
●
●It may be impossible to change one variable only in any treatment. 
Inevitably, other aspects change simultaneously. These are known 
as confounding variables. For example, if you attempt to change 
The concept of proof
The word ‘proof’ should be used cautiously when applied to 
quantitative research – the term implies 100 per cent certainty, whereas 
this is very rarely justified owing to the ambiguity inherent in statistical 
analysis and experimental design. When writing up your thesis and 
associated papers, ‘hedging’ language (Ch 27) such as ‘this indicates 
that. . .’ or ‘this appears to show that. . .’ is therefore preferable to 
‘absolute’ or categorical phrases such as ‘it is always the case that. . .’ 
or ‘this proves that. . .’.
✔
270 
Research methods
temperature, you may also change humidity. Adding ‘control’ 
treatments are the way in which experimenters attempt to rule out 
the effects of confounding variables.
●
●Uncertainty in conclusions. Sampling and other errors can be taken 
into account in statistical analysis, but the results must always be 
expressed with a degree of uncertainty (Ch 21).
●
●Subjectivity or bias. There may be an unwitting element of 
subjectivity or bias in the choice of treatments; the choice of 
conditions (sometimes selected to accentuate effects of a particular 
treatment); and in some cases, in the recording of results.
Concept of ‘the control’
A control is an additional treatment that attempts to test the effects of 
changing a potentially confounding variable. Suppose it is known that 
Drug A is acidic in nature and that the formulation available for testing 
also contains a synthesis by-product (impurity), Chemical B. A suitable 
experimental design might include the following treatments:
1	 No treatment (usually involving a placebo, or pill without any added 
chemicals).
2	 Drug A (administered as a pill).
3	 Control for effects of pH (a placebo pill with the same pH or 
buffering capacity as the Drug A pill).
4	 Control for the effect of Chemical B (a pill containing similar amounts 
of Chemical B as in the Drug A pill, but without any Drug A).
If the results show an effect in treatment 2, but not in 3 and 4, then the 
confounding variables can be ruled out; if there are also effects in 3 or 
4, then the confounding variables may well be important.
✔
The range of possible experimental designs is infinite, so it is 
impossible to provide specific guidance. The best path is perhaps 
to compare approaches used in recent publications in your area and 
take the guidance of your supervisor. Nevertheless, when designing an 
experiment, the following tips may be useful.
●
●Consider the likely method of statistical analysis from the start, 
as this may influence the experimental design. For example, it 
is possible to estimate an appropriate number of replicates to 
use to demonstrate a certain percentage difference between two 
treatments if a preliminary indication of the variability among the 
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
271
replicates is available. Another reason for considering statistical 
tests beforehand is that they may require assumptions about your 
data, which you can ensure by using, for example, a truly random 
sampling procedure.
●
●Keep your initial experiments simple. It is better to use a design 
that will provide a conclusive answer to a simple question than to 
over-complicate matters, run into logistical problems in setting up 
the experiment and collecting data, and end up with inconclusive 
results.
●
●Use experimental design to reduce the effects of confounding 
variables. Examples might be the ‘Latin square’ type of design that 
ensures that replicates of the same treatment appear only in one row 
and one column, so that any spatially changing variables are evened 
out among the treatments.
●
●Learn from ‘trial runs’. These can help you work out where there 
will be difficulties in procedure and layout, use of instruments, and 
other important limitations on your experimental design. Be aware, 
however, that you could spend too much time working out what to 
do and how to do it – all experimentation involves a certain amount 
of compromise.
●
●Keep ethical and safety issues in mind. Think these through 
before you start work and try to bear the safety of participants and 
researchers in mind when focusing on collecting data (Ch 19).
The conduct of experiments is discussed further in Chapter 24.
Measurements and error determination
A measurement is an estimate of some dimension of an object or event 
as a ratio of a standard unit. It therefore consists of both a number and 
the symbol for the unit, for example: 0.5 metres; 1.6 litres; 39 kilograms. 
The units chosen for most scientific studies are those of the Système 
Internationale or SI, a metre–kilogram–second scheme with defined 
symbols for units and prefixes for small and large numbers that differ 
by multiples of 1000 (103). Table 23.1 provides some examples of 
commonly used dimensions and their official symbols, while Table 23.2 
provides a list of prefixes.
All measurements contain error, which can be of two types: accuracy 
or precision. In practice, measurements are often assumed to be 
accurate and the more important thing to estimate is the precision.
272 
Research methods
Table 23.1  Some examples of SI units. For the prefixes normally used in 
association with these units see Table 23.2.
Quantity
Si unit (and symbol)
Base units
Length
metre (m)
Mass
kilogram (kg)
Time
second (s)
Temperature
kelvin (K)
Amount of substance
mole (mol)
Electric current
ampere (A)
Luminous intensity
candela (cd)
Supplementary units
Plane angle
radian (rad)
Solid angle
steradian (sr)
Some examples of compound units
Energy
joule (J) = m2 kg s–1 = N m
Force
newton (N) = m kg s–2 = J m–1
Pressure
pascal (Pa) = kg m–1 s–2 = N m–2
Power
watt (W) = m2 kg s–3 = J s–1
Electric charge
coulomb (C) = A s
Illumination
lux (lx) = cd sr m–2
Table 23.2  SI prefixes. Note that after the first row, small number prefixes have 
the ending ‘o’, while large number prefixes have the ending ‘a’.
Small numbers
Large numbers
Value
Prefix
Symbol
Value
Prefix
Symbol
10–3
milli
m
103
kilo
k
10–6
micro
m
106
mega
M
10–9
nano
n
109
giga
G
10–12
pico
p
1012
tera
T
10–15
femto
f
1015
peta
P
10–18
atto
a
1018
exa
E
10–21
zepto
z
1021
zeta
Z
10–24
yocto
y
1024
yotta
Y
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
273
There are two main ways of estimating precision:
●
●By providing a range that relates to the observer’s or instrument’s 
ability to discriminate between readings. For example, if measuring 
length with a ruler, you might write 104 ± 0.5 mm because you were 
using the scale divisions on the ruler to estimate to the nearest mm; 
that is, the dividing points between adjacent values below and above 
104 are at 103.5 and 104.5 mm.
●
●By providing an estimated error that is based on repeated 
measurements of the same quantity. For quantifying measurement 
error alone, this would be obtained from several independent 
attempts at measurement, for example, five independent values 
obtained from the same weighing machine of someone’s weight 
(mass). In many scientific studies, this error is taken to be included 
in the overall sampling error obtained from replicates. 
When reporting measurement data, you should use appropriate 
measures of location and dispersion to describe them. These are 
outlined in Table 21.1. 
Correlation
This is a way of describing the relationship between two measured 
variables, for example, the number of cigarettes smoked per day and 
life expectancy. A variable is well correlated with another if their values 
alter together, either in a positive fashion, or in a negative fashion. This 
is illustrated in Figure 23.1. A statistic called the correlation coefficient 
can be used to express the strength or degree of linear correlation 
Accuracy and precision
Accuracy is the closeness of a measured or estimated value to its true 
value. Example: a balance would be said to be inaccurate if, instead 
of giving you a value for a standard 1 kg weight as 1 kg, it consistently 
gave a value of 1.02 kg. All measurements of similar weights from the 
instrument would thus be approximately +2 per cent wrong.
Precision is the closeness of repeated measurements to each 
other. For example, if you weighed a specimen several times on 
the same balance and got very different results each time, then the 
instrument would be said to be imprecise. A mean of 1.000 kg might 
be considered to be accurate, but if the standard deviation of the 
measurements was 0.25 kg, this would be considered rather imprecise.
i
274 
Research methods
between two variables. This takes values between −1 and 1; the closer 
its value is to these extremes, the higher the degree of correlation, and 
the closer to zero, the lower. The sign indicates whether the correlation 
is positive or negative. The coefficient can be used in a statistical test 
to find out whether the correlation is significantly different from zero.
Figure 23.1  Examples of correlation. Each dot represents an experimental 
subject measured for variables A and B. (a) The two variables have a strong 
positive correlation; that is, if one variable increases, so does the other. (b) The 
two variables are negatively correlated; that is, if one variable increases, 
the other decreases, but in the case illustrated, the points are more widely 
scattered, so the correlation is less strong than in the first example. (c) The 
two variables have no strong correlation: that is, they show no discernable 
relationship.
Correlation and causality
Vital to an understanding of quantitative research is an awareness that 
correlation does not necessarily imply causality. If A is well correlated 
with B, this alone is not enough evidence to state that A causes B. 
It could be something related to A, or even, due to coincidence, 
something unrelated to A. So, if people with high blood pressure are 
more likely to have heart attacks, this alone does not show that high 
blood pressure is a cause of heart attacks, although if there were no 
relationship between the two, you might be inclined to rule out this 
possibility. The only way to become more certain is to gather more 
evidence.
✔
Surveys and questionnaires
These are valuable tools for gaining quantitative information from 
respondents (although it must be remembered that these tools can also 
provide qualitative data). Respondents can be a representative sample 
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
275
(for example, members of demographic C2 chosen at random or using 
a sampling protocol) or a population (all staff members within a school). 
Before designing a survey, you should consider what demographic 
information you might need to associate with other responses and 
how you intend to report the results (Ch 21) as this may influence the 
questions asked and the way you write them.
Questions fall into one of two categories, closed or open. There are 
several types of closed question.
●
●Categorical. Here, you can only select one of the options, for 
example: ‘Gender: M/F’; or ‘Do you agree with the above statement? 
– Yes/No/Don’t know (delete as appropriate)’. Results are best 
expressed as percentages of responses in each category.
●
●Numerical. These request a numerical answer, for example ‘What 
is your age in years?’ These can be summarised by appropriate 
statistics of location and dispersion (Ch 21).
●
●Multiple-choice questions (MCQs). These are useful when there are 
mutually exclusive options to select. This type of question will be 
familiar from assessments at school and university. The answers 
given can be summarised easily as percentages of respondents 
selecting each option.
●
●Multiple response questions. These are like MCQs, only respondents 
are allowed to choose more than one answer. The answers can also 
be summarised as percentages selecting each option, but note that 
the total number of options selected may be larger than your sample 
size. In fact, the average number of options selected may be an 
interesting supplementary piece of data to report.
●
●Ranking (ordinal) questions. These ask you to place possible 
answers in an order; for example, ‘Place the items in the following list 
in order of preference, writing 1 for your most preferred option, 2 for 
the next and so on, down to 5 for your least preferred option’. You 
Ethics and data protection
Ethical aspects of qualitative and quantitative research apply 
particularly to surveys and questionnaires (Ch 19). It is important 
that you read this material and follow local rules and university 
regulations.
✔
276 
Research methods
can present the results as the most common selection at each rank or 
as percentages of respondents choosing each rank for a specific item 
(perhaps as a histogram). A ‘mean rank’ is another possible way of 
expressing the data, but this should be interpreted cautiously.
●
●Likert-scale questions. These are useful for assessing people’s 
opinions or feelings on a five-point scale. Typically, respondents are 
asked to react to a statement. An example would be: 
‘Smoking is dangerous for your health’. Which of the following best 
describes your feelings about the above statement? (Circle the 
appropriate number.)
1	 Agree strongly
2	 Agree
3	 Neither agree nor disagree
4	 Disagree
5	 Disagree strongly
Some Likert-scale designs only use four categories, missing out 
‘neither agree nor disagree’, to force respondents to indicate a 
preference on one side or the other.
The results of Likert-scale questions are often treated as ordinal data 
and non-parametric statistical tests are applied (Ch 21). Responses 
Example of multiple response question
Which of the following resources have you used in the past month? 
(Tick all that apply)
❏
❏Textbooks (hard copy)
❏
❏e-books
❏
❏Primary sources
❏
❏Hard copy journal articles
❏
❏Online journal articles
❏
❏Blogs
Example of multiple-choice question
Which type of research resources have you found most helpful in your 
current research? (Tick one box)
❏
❏Hard copy reference books
❏
❏Electronic encyclopaedia
❏
❏Textbooks
❏
❏Lecture handouts
❏
❏E-journal
❏
❏None of the above
Note the use of a ‘get out’ answer in the multiple-choice example shown.
i
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
277
to Likert options may be combined, as in the example ‘over 57 per 
cent either agreed or agreed strongly with the statement. . .’. 
Open-answer survey questions require input from the respondent 
and are useful when you do not know all the possible answers, or 
you do not wish to lead the respondent. In a student survey, an 
example might be ‘Why did you choose module P201?’ or ‘Please 
summarise your experience in the exam’. The text responses often 
provide valuable quotes for a report or case study, and this use would 
be classified as qualitative (Ch 22). It is possible, however, given a 
reasonably large sample, to code and/or categorise the answers and 
present them in a quantitative fashion, for example, in the form of a 
pie chart (Ch 21) showing the proportion of respondents giving each 
type of answer.
When conducting a questionnaire or survey consider the following tips.
●
●Make sure your instructions are clear and unambiguous. Not 
everyone in the sample will make the same assumptions as you. 
For example, if you write: ‘Do you agree with this statement? Yes/
No’, unless given clear directions, some respondents may circle the 
answer they agree with, others may score out the one they disagree 
with, and some may provide other marks that you will find difficult 
to interpret. A score might look like a tick, for example. Look at the 
wording of others to see how they have tackled any issues that 
might occur.
●
●Try out the question set with a friend or family member before using 
it on real subjects. This may reveal problems with the wording that 
you may not have appreciated, and is therefore best done with 
someone relatively unfamiliar with your topic, but who is willing to 
provide you with informal feedback.
●
●When explaining how your survey was conducted, supply 
appropriate details. These should include:
–– Sampling methods. How were the respondents contacted or 
chosen? What ethical procedures were followed?
Likert scales
These are named after Rensis Likert, an American psychologist who 
pioneered the use of a five-point survey scale in 1932.
i
278 
Research methods
–– Details of respondents. You should provide a summary of 
demographics (gender, age, background of those responding). 
This information can be derived from specific questions, often 
placed at the start of the survey. However, observe good research 
practice by ensuring that the privacy and anonymity of your 
respondents are protected (Ch 14).
–– Questionnaire design. The principles and rationale behind the 
design should be discussed and a copy of the questionnaire 
provided, perhaps in an appendix.
–– Procedure. How was the survey administered?
●
●Correct your respondents’ grammar and spelling errors. When 
reporting responses, this is generally acceptable practice, because 
it is true to the spirit of what was written and helps the reader focus 
on the main points made. You should add a note to the ‘Material and 
Methods’ section to explain that you have done this. Clearly, however, 
this would be inappropriate if your study were about language and the 
inaccuracies in the responses were the main focus of the research.
Observe six basic rules of surveys
1	 Keep your survey as short as possible. Use the minimum number 
of questions required to obtain the information you need
2	 Only ask a question if you have a clear idea of how you will use 
the information obtained.
3	 Make sure your questions are unambiguous.
4	 In deciding the order of questions, try to move from the general 
to the specific. There will then be less chance of early questions 
influencing responses to later ones.
5	 Make sure you obtain appropriate demographic information. 
This will allow you to describe your sample accurately and to draw 
correlations.
6	 Always pilot your survey before releasing it. That way you will iron 
out potential misunderstandings.
✔
Technology has come to the aid of the researcher with the introduction 
of survey software often available under licence to academic 
institutions. Such software allows postgraduates the facility to compile 
and distribute survey questionnaires electronically to an identified 
population. The results can be collated and interrogated electronically 
23  Aspects of quantitative research 
279
and a report produced in hard copy. Such technology can offer 
considerable time-saving in data collection and analysis.
Analysing and presenting your results
Rarely are results of observations, surveys or experiments reported 
without subsequent analysis. Indeed, your ability to analyse and 
present your results will be examined thoroughly in the course of your 
viva exam.
●
●Adequate description of your methods is vital. One goal of 
quantitative research is to produce repeatable results from which 
general conclusions can be drawn. This normally means that a 
‘Materials and Methods’ section contains enough information to 
allow a competent peer to repeat your work (Ch 28).
●
●Descriptions should use clear unambiguous language, and 
qualitative terms used should be defined if possible. For example, 
the colour of a specimen might be described with reference to a 
standard colour chart.
●
●Repetition is vital. Simple measurements should be repeated if 
possible, so that a figure indicating their accuracy (dispersion, Ch 
21) can be provided.
●
●Figures and tables should be used appropriately. When describing 
results, appropriate use should be made of figures and tables and 
these should be constructed according to the usual discipline 
conventions (Ch 21).
●
●The results of experiments should be analysed using statistical tests 
(Ch 21).
Action points
23.1  Plan out a survey or experiment, or the procedures 
necessary for a measurement. Aim to identify the different steps 
in the process and, in particular, resource constraints. In the case 
of a survey, the latter might include the respondents’ time; in an 
experiment, the availability of test subjects or equipment; and for 
measurements, the number of replicate readings it is possible to 
carry out.
280 
Research methods
23.2  List potential forms of bias in your research. Being aware 
of these will help you to avoid them. Discuss your list with your 
supervisor to see whether you have missed anything, and to 
explore methods of avoiding the most important sources of bias in 
your work.
23.3  Find out about the statistical tests that can be carried 
out using the specific software available to you. Will you be 
able to accomplish your aims using tests within a spreadsheet 
program like Excel, or will you need more sophisticated software? 
What ‘learning curve’ is required to understand and master these 
tests? To help overcome potential difficulties, try out the software 
functions using dummy values, before using them with real data.
24  Experiments and field studies 
281
24
How to design and conduct 
laboratory and field investigations
Experiments and field studies
Many research projects, particularly in the sciences, involve 
laboratory and/or fieldwork. These situations provide opportunities 
to observe specimens, carry out experiments and take relevant 
measurements. Good design and working practices are essential to 
ensure the validity of your results.
Key topics
➔
➔Designing experiments
➔
➔Sampling
➔
➔Preparation for research activity
➔
➔Appropriate conduct in the lab and field
➔
➔Carrying out instructions and noting results
In many disciplines, research activity is undertaken in the laboratory (‘lab’) 
and/or field. You are likely to have experienced lab and field sessions 
and project work as an undergraduate, so will know what to expect. At 
PhD level, the rigour with which you carry out this work must be of the 
highest possible standard: essentially, your methods and results should 
be of publishable quality. While precise methods will always depend on 
your discipline and the nature of the investigation, the content of this 
chapter should help to provide a sound foundation for this work.
Designing experiments
In many experiments, the aim is to provide evidence for causality 
(Ch 23). If x causes y, we expect, repeatably, to find that a change 
in x results in a change in y. Hence, the ideal experiment of this kind 
282 
Research methods
involves measurement of y, the dependent (measured) variable, at 
one or more values of x, the independent variable, and subsequent 
demonstration of some relationship between them. Experiments 
therefore involve comparisons of the results of treatments – changes 
in the independent variable as applied to an experimental subject. The 
change is engineered by the experimenter under controlled conditions. 
Subjects given the same treatment are known as replicates (they may 
be called plots). A block is a grouping of replicates or plots. The blocks 
are contained in a field, that is, the whole area (or time) available for the 
experiment.
Terminology of experiments
Many of the terms used for experimentation originated from the 
statistical analysis of agricultural experiments, but are now used 
widely in science.
Table 24.1 outlines the important stages in designing an experiment. 
Controlling variables in experiments
Interpretation of experiments is seldom clear-cut because uncontrolled 
variables always change when treatments are given.
●
●Confounding variables increase or decrease systematically as the 
independent variable increases or decreases. Their effects are 
known as systematic variation.
●
●Nuisance variables are uncontrolled variables that cause differences 
in the value of y independently of the value of x, resulting in random 
variation.
Confounding variables can be disentangled from those caused directly 
by treatments by incorporating appropriate controls in the experiment. A 
control is really just another treatment where a potentially confounding 
variable is adjusted so that its effects, if any, can be measured and 
taken into account (Ch 23). There are often many potential controls for 
any experiment. The consequence of systematic variation is that you can 
never be certain that the treatment, and the treatment alone, has caused 
an observed result. By careful design, you can, however, ‘minimise the 
uncertainty’ involved in your conclusion. Methods available include:
●
●ensuring, through experimental design, that the independent variable 
is the only major factor that changes in any treatment;
●
●incorporating appropriate controls to show that potential 
confounding variables have little or no effect;
24  Experiments and field studies 
283
Table 24.1  Five key stages in the design of an experiment. Tips are provided 
for each phase.
1  Preliminaries
• Read background material and decide on a subject area to investigate.
• Formulate a simple hypothesis to test. It is preferable to have a clear answer to 
one question than to be uncertain about several questions.
• Decide which dependent variable you are going to measure and how: is it 
relevant to the problem? Can you measure it accurately, precisely and without 
bias?
• Think about and plan the statistical analysis of your results. Will this affect your 
design?
2  Designing
• Find out the limitations on your resources.
• Choose treatments that alter the minimum of confounding variables.
• Incorporate as many effective controls as possible.
• Keep the number of replicates as high as is feasible.
• Ensure that the same number of replicates is present in each treatment.
• Use effective randomisation and blocking arrangements.
3  Planning
• List all the materials you will need. Order any chemicals and make up solutions; 
identify, grow, collect or breed the experimental subjects you require; check 
equipment is available.
• Organise space and/or time in which to do the experiment.
• Account for the time taken to apply treatments and record results. Make out a 
timesheet if things will be hectic.
4  Carrying out the experiment
• Record the results and make careful notes of everything you do. Make 
additional observations to those planned if interesting things happen.
• Repeat experiment if time and resources allow.
5  Analysing
• Graph data as soon as possible (during the experiment, if you can). This will 
allow you to visualise what has happened and make adjustments to the design 
(for example, timing of measurements).
• Carry out the planned statistical analysis.
• Jot down conclusions and new hypotheses arising from the experiment.
●
●selecting experimental subjects randomly to cancel out systematic 
variation arising from biased selection;
●
●matching or pairing individuals among treatments so that differences 
in response due to their initial status are eliminated;
284 
Research methods
●
●arranging subjects and treatments randomly so that responses to 
systematic differences in conditions do not influence the results;
●
●ensuring that experimental conditions are uniform so that responses 
to systematic differences in conditions are minimised.
To reduce and assess the consequences of nuisance variables, you can: 
●
●incorporate replicates to allow random variation to be quantified;
●
●choose subjects that are as similar as possible;
●
●control random fluctuations in environmental conditions. 
Use of replicates
Replicate results show how variable the response is within treatments. 
They allow you to compare the differences among treatments in 
the context of the variability within treatments – you can do this via 
statistical tests such as analysis of variance (Ch 21). Larger sample 
sizes tend to increase the precision of estimates of parameters and 
increase the chance of showing a significant difference between 
treatments, if one exists. For statistical reasons, it is often best to keep 
the number of replicates similar among treatments.
Constraints on experimental design
In most experiments, you will find that there are resource constraints 
on the design. For example, limits may be set by availability of 
subjects, cost of treatment, availability or cost of a chemical or bench 
space. Logistics may be a factor (for example, time taken to record or 
analyse data). Your equipment or facilities may affect design because 
you cannot regulate conditions as well as you might desire. You may 
have to accept a great deal of initial variability if your subjects are 
collected from the wild.
i
Can subsamples act as replicates?
The short answer is ‘no’. Subsamples are derived from the same 
original specimen, and this could mean readings or specimens. 
Statistically speaking, the degree of independence of replicates is 
highly important: subsamples are not wholly independent. They can tell 
you about variability in the measurement method but not in the quantity 
being measured.
?
24  Experiments and field studies 
285
Randomisation of treatments
The two aspects of randomisation you must consider are:
●
●positioning of treatments within experimental blocks;
●
●allocation of treatments to the experimental subjects.
For relatively simple experiments, you can adopt a completely 
randomised design: here, the position and treatment assigned to any 
subject are defined randomly. A completely randomised layout has the 
advantage of simplicity but cannot show how confounding variables 
alter in space or time. This information can be obtained if you use a 
blocked design in which the degree of randomisation is restricted. 
Here, the experimental space or time is divided into blocks, each of 
which accommodates the complete set of treatments. When analysed 
appropriately, the results for the blocks can be compared to test for 
differences in the confounding variables and these effects can be 
separated out from the effects of the treatments. 
A Latin square is an example of a method of placing treatments so 
that they appear in a balanced fashion within a square block or field. 
Treatments appear once in each column and row (see Figure 24.1), 
so the effects of confounding variables can be ‘cancelled out’ in two 
directions at right angles to each other.
Figure 24.1  Examples of Latin square arrangements for three and four 
treatments. Letters indicate treatments; the number of possible arrangements 
for each size of square increases greatly as the size increases.
A 
B 
C 
D
D 
B 
C 
A
C 
D 
A 
B
B 
A 
D 
C
A 
C 
B
B 
A 
C
C 
B 
A
286 
Research methods
Pairing and matching subjects
The paired comparison is a special case of blocking used to reduce 
systematic variation when there are two treatments. Examples of its 
use are:
●
●‘Before and after’ comparison. Here, the pairing removes variability 
arising from the initial state of the subjects, for example, weight gain 
of mice on a diet, where the weight gain may depend on the initial 
weight.
●
●Application of a treatment and control to parts of the same subject 
or to closely related subjects. This allows comparison without 
complications arising from different origin of subjects, for example, 
drug or placebo given to sibling rats, virus-containing or control 
solution swabbed on left or right halves of a leaf.
●
●Application of treatment and control under shared conditions. This 
allows comparison without complications arising from different 
environments of subjects, for example, rats in a cage, plants in a 
pot.
Multifactorial experiments
These involve applying two or more treatments to the experimental 
subjects in a predetermined way that allow interactions among 
the treatments can be analysed by specialised statistics. They are 
economical on resources because of ‘hidden replication’ – when two or 
more treatments are given to a subject, the result acts statistically as a 
replicate for each treatment.
i
Matched samples represent a restriction on randomisation where you 
make a balanced selection of subjects for treatments on the basis of 
some attribute or attributes that may influence results, for example, 
age, sex, prior history. The effect of matching should be to ‘cancel 
out’ the unwanted source(s) of variation. Disadvantages include the 
subjective element in choice of character(s) to be balanced, inexact 
matching of quantitative characteristics, the time matching takes and 
possible wastage of unmatched subjects.
When analysed statistically, both paired comparisons and matched 
samples can show up differences between treatments that might 
otherwise be rejected on the basis of a fully randomised design, but 
note that the statistical analysis may be different.
24  Experiments and field studies 
287
Sampling
When carrying out research, it is rare to be able to observe or measure 
every individual or location in the population or space in which you are 
interested. In practice, statistics obtained from a subset (or sample) are 
used to estimate relevant parameters for the total population or area. 
Samples consist of data values for a particular variable (for example, 
sodium ion concentration), each recorded from an individual sampling 
unit (for example, a core sample) in a sample of n units (for example, 
n = 50 cores) taken from the population or area under investigation 
(for example, a particular geographical location). The term ‘replicate’ 
can be applied either to the measurement or the actual sampling 
unit. When estimating population or location parameters from sample 
statistics, the sample size is important, larger sample sizes allowing 
greater statistical confidence. However, the optimum sample size is 
normally a balance between statistical and practical considerations.
Sampling is used in fieldwork where natural populations are to be 
observed under undisturbed conditions; however, the same principles 
apply in a laboratory context.
At the outset, it is important to provide a complete description of 
the biological population or area being sampled. Failure to do this 
will make your results difficult to interpret or to compare with other 
observations, including your own. You should take great care to 
minimise selection bias, or population parameters inferred from your 
samples will be unrealistic and this may invalidate your work and its 
conclusions.
Repetition of experiments
Even if your experiment is well designed and analysed, only limited 
conclusions can be made. Firstly, what you can say is valid for a 
particular place and time, with a particular investigator, experimental 
subject and method of applying treatments. Secondly, if your results 
were significant at the 5 per cent level of probability (Ch 21), there 
is still an approximately 1 in 20 chance that the results did arise 
by chance. To guard against these possibilities, it is important that 
experiments are repeated. Also, it makes sense to repeat work so 
that you can have full confidence in your conclusions. Many scientists 
recommend that experiments are done three times in total.
✔
288 
Research methods
Deciding on a sampling strategy
A sampling strategy should allow you to obtain reliable and useful 
information about your particular population(s) or area(s), while using 
your resources efficiently. Selecting a sample involves the formulation 
of rules and methods (the sampling protocol) by which some members 
of the population or locations are included in the sample. The chosen 
sample is then measured using defined procedures to obtain relevant 
data. Finally, the information so obtained is processed to calculate 
appropriate statistics. Truly representative samples should be: 
●
●taken at random, or in a manner that ensures that all members of 
the population or all parts of an area have an equal chance of being 
selected;
Definitions
Population – all those individuals or locations within a specified time or 
space about which inferences are to be made, specified according to 
some biological definition (perhaps related to life history, growth stage, 
or sex), and normally investigated at a particular location and time.
Parameter – a numerical constant or mathematical function used to 
describe a particular population or location (for example, the mean 
height of 18-year-old females).
Statistic – an estimate of a parameter obtained from a sample (for 
example, the height of 18-year-old females based on those in your 
keep-fit class).
i
Choosing a relevant population: factors to specify 
These should include:
■
■exact geographical location;
■
■type of habitat or geology;
■
■date and time of sampling;
■
■age, sex, physiological condition and health of sampled organisms;
■
■other details relevant to your work, for example, an index of 
pollution, geological background.
This information might apply to all members of the population or form 
a matrix of data associated with all samples. Do not include data for 
which the appropriate population specification is unavailable.
✔
24  Experiments and field studies 
289
●
●large enough to provide sufficient precision in estimation of 
population characteristics;
●
●unbiased by the sampling procedure or equipment.
You should decide on a sampling protocol before any investigation 
proceeds. The main aspects to be determined are: the position of 
samples; the size and shape of the sampling area; and the number 
of sampling units in each sample. Before this can be done, however, 
information is required about the likely distribution of organisms or 
other factor of interest. This can be even (homogeneous), patchy 
(contagious), stratified (homogeneous within sub-areas) or present as a 
gradient (Figure 24.2). You might decide which type applies from a pilot 
study, published research or by analogy with other systems.
When choosing a sampling strategy, the chief options are:
●
●point sampling, where samples are taken at specific co-ordinate 
locations;
●
●quadrat sampling, where samples are obtained within a 
2-dimensional area;
●
●transect sampling, where samples are taken along a linear track.
Table 24.2 outlines relevant matters to take into account. Regarding 
sampling position, Figure 24.2(b) illustrates representative strategies 
mentioned in this table.
Random
Patchy
Stratified
Gradient
Random
Systematic
Stratified random (1)
Stratified random (2)
weight related to sub-area
(a)
(b)
Figure 24.2  Examples (a) types of distribution and (b) methods of sampling. 
In (a) the dots represent individuals, while in (b) they represent sampling positions.
290 
Research methods
Table 24.2  Issues to be considered when creating a sampling strategy.
The shape and dimensions of the sampling area
• Quadrats are usually circular or square. A circular quadrat has the advantage 
that its position can be marked as a single (central) point and the area defined 
by use of a tape measure, whereas a square quadrat may require marking at 
each corner. Transects are generally used when it is difficult to move through 
the site to positions.
• When the distribution is truly random, then all quadrat sizes are equally 
effective for estimating population parameters (assuming the total number of 
individuals sampled is equal). If the distribution is patchy, a smaller quadrat size 
may be more effective than a larger one: too large an area might obscure the 
true nature of the clumped distribution. If the distribution is stratified or graded, 
then the sampling area is generally less important than sampling position. 
However, the size of the organisms must be considered: it is obvious that you 
would require different-sized quadrats for trees in a forest than for daisies on a 
lawn.
• Small sample areas have the advantage that more small samples can usually be 
taken for the same amount of labour. This may result in increased precision and 
many small areas will cover a wider range of the habitat than few large ones, 
so the catch can be more representative. However, sampling error at the edge 
of quadrats is proportionately greater as sample area diminishes. To avoid such 
effects, you need to establish a protocol for dealing with items that overlap the 
edge of the quadrats.
Position of sampling
• In simple random sampling, the coordinates for sampling points are chosen 
using random numbers. Every organism in the population or location thus has 
an equal chance of selection, but the area may not be covered evenly. This 
method works best if the distribution of organisms or factors is homogeneous.
• Systematic sampling involves using some form of pattern or grid to select 
samples. The advantage is simplicity, but the disadvantage is potential bias if 
the pattern coincides with some periodic distribution of the population or factor.
• Stratified random sampling ensures that each part of the area is represented. 
The area is divided into sub-areas within which random sampling is carried out.
Number of sampling units per sample
• When small numbers of sampling units are present, values of sample 
statistics will be susceptible to the effects of random variation – especially 
true if the underlying spatial distribution is patchy. You may then be unable 
to demonstrate statistically that there are differences between populations or 
areas. On the other hand, measuring very large numbers of replicates may 
represent an impractical workload.
• If you do not wish to sample the whole of a quadrat, perhaps because the 
density of sampling units is too high, you can employ sub-sampling by studying 
a defined part of the quadrat (‘two-stage sampling’).
24  Experiments and field studies 
291
Preparation for research activity
If you want to gain the most from your research activity, good 
preparation is essential. Often lab procedures and field observations 
are tightly scheduled and you should be prepared to be ‘up and 
running’ almost from the start. You should:
●
●know the theoretical background to the methods you will be using;
●
●be familiar with any instructions or protocols you’ve been given or 
have developed;
●
●have a detailed plan for what you will be doing, if necessary with 
minute-by-minute instructions;
●
●make sure you have the appropriate equipment ready to take to 
carry out your work; 
●
●be ready to record the results or observations, for example, by 
preparing a table ready to write down data values.
If the methods you are using are new to you, then it may be helpful 
to discuss them with your supervisor or another student, postdoc or 
technician familiar with what is involved. If you are trying to replicate 
materials and methods from a research paper, there may be minor 
aspects of the procedures that are vital for success. Try to identify and 
copy these.
Sampling in time
If your samples are taken at different times, this can present problems, 
especially those related to logistics. Also, if examining a phenomenon 
that fluctuates regularly (for example, with a period governed by day 
and night, or high and low tide), then the frequency of sampling has to 
be determined with that periodicity in mind.
i
Reserving shared equipment or facilities
In planning your work, make sure you have identified points in the 
research process when you may need to reserve specialist equipment 
or facilities and so ensure that it is available when you need it.
✔
292 
Research methods
Appropriate conduct in the lab and field
It is easy to become complacent about safety, especially as accidents 
are thankfully rare. However, the rules associated with lab or fieldwork 
(Ch 19) will have your safety as their primary concern, so you must 
pay attention to them. You may have to work with toxic chemicals, 
dangerous instruments or in hazardous environments, so care is 
essential. It will be assumed you are familiar from undergraduate days 
with basic safety measures and legislation, about the fire drill and 
relevant hazard symbols. Ensure you attend training events if this is not 
the case. 
Carrying out instructions and noting results
Often, you will need to follow procedures as indicated from a series 
of instructions, or detailed in the Materials and Methods section of a 
research paper. Always read instructions right through before starting 
as this may help you organise your activities. You may wish to highlight 
key points or lay out tables ready to record your data. The language 
of instructions will be very precise and should be followed to the letter 
or number – for example, success will often depend on the precision 
with which you measure out reagents, carry out timing or control 
temperature.
Giving priority to safety
Safety rules are common sense and should be part of your normal 
practice. However, be sure that you keep safety as a priority and do 
not become slap-dash just because you’ve become familiar with the 
procedures or working environment.
✔
Use ‘dead’ time effectively
During lab experiments, there may be delays between parts of your 
work as reactions develop, or as instruments complete a process. Use 
this time to look ahead to what you will be doing next, to create tables 
or graphs ready for recording your results, to jot down ideas for your 
conclusions or to read related literature.
✔
24  Experiments and field studies 
293
Being able to record accurately what you see and measure is a vital 
skill in the sciences. The following key tips may help for recording your 
observations.
●
●Don’t rely on your memory – write down everything.
●
●Never write on scraps of paper (you’ll lose them) – use a proper lab 
notebook.
●
●Always date each page and provide full details of the specimen or 
experiment.
●
●If you are recording numbers, use an appropriate number of 
significant figures to take account of the precision (or, perhaps more 
strictly, the lack of precision) of your method.
●
●If drawing diagrams, make sure these have a descriptive title and are 
well labelled.
●
●In the field, be prepared for bad weather – buy a special wet-
weather notebook or take a clear plastic bag to enclose your 
notebook, and use a pencil as this will write on damp paper.
●
●Draw any graphs or tables according to the normal scientific 
conventions (Ch 21).
Always try to write up your work when it is fresh in your mind. You may 
be tired after a lengthy session in the lab or field, but if you delay for 
too long you may forget useful details.
Action points
24.1  Read up about your methods before you start work. 
Having a deeper understanding of what you are doing and why it 
will help you to work safely, make sure you do not waste resources 
through mistakes in procedure and ensure you obtain more 
accurate results. For these reasons don’t be tempted to skip this 
stage and move directly to the procedure itself.
24.2  Think in advance about statistical analysis. Work out how 
you will analyse your data – this may dictate some aspects of the 
experimental layout or sampling protocol. If you have some idea of 
the variability of the data, this may help you to work out how many 
replicates will be required to demonstrate a significant difference 
between treatments or samples.
294 
Research methods
24.3  Create a checklist of potential safety issues. Take 
into account the safety information provided in the relevant lab 
handbooks, lab notices and your supervisor’s advice. Rehearse 
safety scenarios: imagine what you would do in different situations, 
such as if there were a fire, if a lab colleague swallowed a toxic 
chemical, or if someone cut themselves. This will make you more 
aware of the dangers of the lab or field environment and might help 
you react faster if needed.
Writing up
your research
25  Links between research, writing and speaking 
297
25
How to gain from the interactions 
between investigation, 
communication and thought
Links between research, 
writing and speaking
The act of research stimulates new ideas; the process of writing 
up these thoughts refines and generates further thinking; speaking 
about your research and writing promotes yet more ideas. This 
chapter prompts an understanding of the processes and outcomes 
involved in this cycle.
Key topics
➔
➔Recognising key features of academic discourse
➔
➔How research informs what you write
➔
➔How writing helps thinking
➔
➔How speaking helps thinking, writing and research
➔
➔Placing your academic writing in context
That your research activity will inform your writing might be regarded as 
self-evident for, without the research, there would be no writing. Less 
apparent is that both the acts of writing and speaking about your work 
contribute beneficially to thinking and, hence, the research process and 
the academic discourse that supports it.
Recognising key features of academic discourse
Academic discourse is the term used to describe the ways of thinking 
about and explaining concepts by means of objective and systematic 
analysis and argument. To achieve this in both speech and writing in 
academia in general, particular forms of words are used and further 
298 
Writing up your research
styled to meet the needs of specific disciplines. Thus, learning about, 
understanding and using appropriate discourse models is vital for PhD 
study since these models inform researching, writing and speaking 
within these communities, creating a shared medium of communication 
that is readily absorbed and understood.
Without an awareness and assimilation of the appropriate style of 
communication, no postgraduate can function effectively. These 
discipline discourses are the building blocks of thought that go beyond 
simple description. They help define and refine ideas, create new 
ways of looking at a problem and extend those that have already been 
introduced. Thus, thinking, writing and professional discussion are part 
of a virtuous circle of research that benefits all three activities but are 
predicated on developing a mastery of the relevant discourse. 
How research informs what you write
As a starting point, imagine that you have some formative ideas about 
your area of study, based on your initial researches and proposal 
(Chs 3 and 4), but have yet to refine the detail. Conventionally, this 
would mean delving yet deeper into the literature covering your area 
of interest. This would allow you to establish a context for your later 
thinking, and in the sciences, a platform for setting up observations 
and experiments (Ch 24).
A review of the established literature (the ‘classic’ articles and 
books) in your field of study might have started with a few sources 
recommended by your supervisor or those that are mentioned in 
a review of the subject by a noted figure in the area. If the area is 
Characteristics of discipline discourse
To a certain extent, academic discourse concerns appropriate use of 
vocabulary and grammar – the ‘mechanics’ of writing – but it is about 
much more than this at the subject and discipline level, including: 
characteristic patterns of logic and reasoning (Chs 17 and 18); 
standard methods of quotation and citation (Ch 20); acceptable and 
unacceptable forms of expression, such as analogy and abbreviation 
(Ch 26); distinctive discourse markers (Ch 27) and deployment of 
statistics, figures and tables (Ch 21).
i
25  Links between research, writing and speaking 
299
Displacement activities versus writing
The synergy between research and writing can, at some stages and for 
some students, lead to a tension. For example, there is the potential 
for convincing yourself that the work of the laboratory, Action Research 
activities or research reading require just one more trial, one more 
interview or one more article to ensure completeness. In reality, this is 
often a kind of displacement activity that is undertaken to avoid getting 
to grips with the thesis write-up or completing the progress report or 
paper. Recognising this tendency is valuable and one of the best ways 
of overcoming it is to ensure you write and speak about your research 
as soon and as often as possible.
✔
completely new to you, an advanced undergraduate textbook might 
also be suitable. From this reading, you should have gained:
●
●an understanding of the scope of the subject;
●
●the key concepts;
●
●any jargon, key terms and commonly used word ‘strings’;
●
●the theoretical background;
●
●the orthodoxy, or established viewpoint; or, where there is 
disagreement, the major schools of thought.
Your deeper reading should involve a thorough search of the current 
literature that has appeared in recent journals and review volumes. You 
could source this material by browsing in your library, engaging with 
subject-specific search engines and conducting an online searches 
using key words related to the topic of interest, or again, by consulting 
your supervisor or specialist librarian (Ch 7). An analysis of this reading 
might provide an indication of: 
●
●the research workers who are currently active;
●
●new trends in thinking in your area;
●
●the main areas of present-day activity;
●
●areas of unresolved debate or difference;
●
●any new methodological approaches being applied.
Often, your first readings in an area are highly influential on your later 
thinking. Your research reading might reveal a sub-topic or niche area 
that interests you, or an area which is not currently understood, but 
which you feel might be advanced by your efforts. Moreover, none of this 
300 
Writing up your research
Extracting meaning from complex data sets
Often, the meaning behind data will be masked by the volume of 
numbers or the complexity of the information. The way you write up 
the results and the conclusions you draw from them will develop as 
your analysis progresses. Thus, condensing quantitative data into 
descriptive statistics and graphical and tabular summaries can assist in 
its interpretation (Ch 21); hypothesis-testing using statistical methods 
can allow you to place probabilities on provisional theories about your 
results. Data analysis also has value in topics based on qualitative 
information. This can be categorised and evaluated through the use of 
tables, comparative grids and coding (Ch 22). Such exercises force you 
to think of similarities and differences and even writing the headings for 
columns and rows can make you think more analytically about a topic.
✔
research reading will be wasted effort because any reading you do has 
the potential to contribute to your expanding understanding of the field.
Research reading is valuable in another respect that relates to your 
writing. It introduces you to the discourse conventions of your subject. 
This inevitably influences your own writing, although your assimilation 
of the use of language and ways of explaining and arguing particular 
to your discipline may be subliminal over time rather than a conscious 
and deliberate attempt to emulate others writing in your field.
How you engage with the material you read will reflect on your writing 
in that you will be making notes, recording observations of your own 
thoughts and those of others, all of which will involve constructing 
writing. You will be processing thoughts about the research and to 
some extent experimenting with and rehearsing explanations, use of 
terms and expressions that will influence the writing that will ultimately 
appear in your thesis.
In the sciences, this processing of thought and language in the 
research process often happens through the practical activities 
of record-keeping relating to carrying out experiments, or making 
observations, and involves analysis of the data obtained. The thinking 
that arises from analysis of results as well as from reading related 
literature feeds into new avenues of research and/or experimentation. 
Thus, carrying out trial experiments or observations lets you know what 
is feasible, relevant or practical and can inform your later and final 
research and conclusions. 
25  Links between research, writing and speaking 
301
How writing helps thinking
Writing is clearly a process that involves various aspects of thinking. 
You need to decide what to write, recall the appropriate subject-
specific vocabulary to express this, create a logical pattern to the 
words, sentences and paragraphs following the conventions of 
language and analysis, and ensure that what you have written conveys 
the intended sense and meaning.
Scholarly writing follows particular conventions (Ch 26). These involve 
aspects of structure, language and citation. The act of putting your 
thoughts into words in a scholarly manner has many beneficial 
outcomes, including:
●
●establishing a coherence to your thoughts, through the need to 
create a logical written narrative within a formalised structure;
●
●formulating your ideas more precisely through the requirement to 
choose appropriate vocabulary to describe and explain them;
●
●expanding on ideas through the need to explore consequences, 
make comparisons, analyse alternative hypotheses, and ensure 
balance in discussion;
●
●putting your ideas into the overall research context by referring to 
the work of others;
●
●thinking more deeply about your work by formulating an introduction 
to it and laying down the conclusions you have made;
●
●providing a detailed examination of results (for example, inspection 
of evidence, statistical analysis) that may reveal hitherto unexpected 
features and conclusions;
●
●sparking new ideas by focussing your thoughts during the writing 
process itself.
The last of these potential outcomes is probably the most intriguing. 
Research about how original thought and inspiration come about has 
not identified particular mechanisms. Nevertheless, some activities 
allied to writing seem to assist in the generation of new ideas.
●
●Making notes. This can be as simple as jotting down quotes and 
key ideas from a source, and then elaborating them with your own 
secondary thoughts. Keeping a notebook beside you at all times can 
allow you to take advantage of opportunistic thoughts – you may 
302 
Writing up your research
be ‘in the mood’ or the muse may strike you at odd times and often 
when you least expect it. If you are ready to jot down these notions, 
then they won’t be lost. Related to this is the note-making process 
that is part of research reading activity (Ch 8) and is probably one of 
the earliest engagements that the reader/writer has with transforming 
thought into words.
●
●Taking a disciplined approach to the content of your writing and its 
organisation. This applies to note-making, to planning, to drafting 
and to crafting text. For example, a brainstorming activity (Ch 17) 
and the organisational plan (Ch 26) for your writing that results 
from it might identify missing elements of an overall picture. It is 
sometimes only when a writer has an overview of a topic that he or 
she is able to identify where an argument, position or the evidence 
that supports it is incomplete, and what needs to be added to fill the 
missing space.
●
●Prompting associations. The act of writing seems to assist the mind 
to focus on an idea and to develop it. At its most extreme, this is 
seen in the method known as ‘free-writing’, where a writer in search 
of inspiration is advised to start and continue a defined period of 
rapid writing with the sole aim of generating new thoughts and 
ideas (Ch 17). Sometimes, the act of making associations can be 
spontaneous and can occur as part of the action of writing. Experts 
in the field of writing composition and discourse analysis call this 
process ‘writing as thinking’.
●
●Reflecting and carrying out reflective writing. Analysing your own 
reactions to events or to your research readings can be a useful way of 
generating ideas. This can take you beyond simplistic surface responses 
to what you read or observe, and into a realm of deeper analysis.
Keeping a research journal
This is an excellent way of forming links between your research 
and your writing for students in all disciplines. Some supervisors 
recommend keeping a daily or weekly diary that records progress, 
issues arising, questions to be addressed and points for discussion with 
the supervisor as well as ideas and concepts. This ‘routine writing’ can 
help to enhance fluency in writing and, again, stimulate thinking as you 
write. Furthermore, since the average three-year period of postgraduate 
research is a long time to keep ideas in your head, it makes great sense 
to jot down provisional conclusions and ideas as you go along.
✔
25  Links between research, writing and speaking 
303
●
●Editing and refining a piece of writing. This activity often prompts 
you to think more deeply about content and how you have 
expressed ideas. Indeed, a key postgraduate skill is the ability to 
analyse and critique your own writing (Ch 30). This becomes evident 
especially when condensing written text or working to a specified 
word limit, as this forces you to seek the essence of your idea 
before expressing it accurately in a minimum number of words.
Some or all of the above activities may prove valuable as you develop 
your thesis and the notions that lie behind it. It can be seen that 
writing and research interact, the one prompting the other. A corollary 
of this is that writing your thesis is not an event that starts at a single 
point of time. It is part of a continual process that begins with initial 
reading, note-making and the preliminary research proposal that arises 
from this. It continues as you analyse research material, observe or 
experiment and reaches a new intensive phase when you decide you 
are ready to assemble a thesis.
How speaking helps thinking, writing and 
research
The ability to speak is what distinguishes humans from other mammals; 
the ability to speak fluently and cogently about your research is what 
will mark you out as a promising PhD student. This ability cannot be 
achieved by sitting quietly pondering in a corner until you need to make 
a formal presentation or enter into less formal discussion with your 
supervisor. To express your thoughts cogently, they first need to be 
gathered and organised, and this usually means that they are recorded 
in some sort of written form, allowing you to:
●
●put ideas into words – even the thoughts that you did not know you had;
●
●put these thoughts into some kind of cogent order;
●
●rehearse the language used to express your thoughts;
●
●rehearse the argument or debate or audit of supporting evidence;
●
●describe findings without the aid of visual cues (in some cases); and 
●
●revisit and reformulate thoughts.
All of this can be done without interruption and without criticism – it is 
essentially a solo activity that is the preliminary to speaking about your 
work. When you present your ideas orally – perhaps with the support of 
the printed word in PowerPoint or handout format – you are replaying 
304 
Writing up your research
the ideas from your initial written thoughts, since writing and speaking 
complement each other in refining thought and expression.
When you are writing text, you have more time to tease out and play 
with ideas, but there is no immediate feedback as in speaking situations, 
where you can see the body-language of your audience. For example, 
when talking, it is possible to judge whether people have a clear 
understanding (they will, smile, nod or reply ‘yes’ or ‘I agree’, or frown 
and indicate disagreement or lack of comprehension). If the latter, then 
you may have to rephrase things. This requires mastery of your topic 
and will reveal where your own understanding or expression are weak.
There is a commonplace observation that you never understand a 
concept as well as when you have tried to explain it to someone 
or a group of people. Expressing your thoughts orally requires that 
you tease out the concepts and present them in clear (if sometimes 
colloquial) language. Opportunities to do this arise in several situations 
and modes. In terms of formal delivery, honing your written ideas into 
a style appropriate for presentation of a conference paper or poster 
will require you to adopt one style of academic discourse and your 
thinking about how to do this will influence structure and language. 
By contrast, in order to deliver similar content in a teaching situation, 
it will have to be considered from different perspectives involving 
different thought processes, possibly involving some simplification 
to meet the needs of that audience. In another situation, that of a 
progress committee interview, explaining your research will involve 
different thought processes and preparatory writing. In each instance, 
you have to think carefully about the best way to explain your ideas for 
the understanding of others.
Reading your text aloud
When you have done a particularly complex piece of writing you should 
try reading it aloud to yourself in the first instance. You will readily 
identify errors of expression and inconsistency in logic. New thoughts 
may occur to you as you progress through the text; secondly, you 
should read it aloud to a friend or better still, try to explain your written 
text orally without reference to the text to that friend and ask them to 
interrupt you when they do not understand something. Again this will 
provide you with opportunities to amend the form or content of your 
writing – whichever applies.
✔
25  Links between research, writing and speaking 
305
Placing your academic writing in context
Putting your ideas and results in their research context is a vital aspect 
of scholarly writing. This can be seen from inspection of many articles 
in the primary literature. You will find that the text is interspersed with 
references to the work of others. There are several reasons for this.
●
●It helps the author to avoid plagiarism by giving due credit to others 
(Ch 20).
●
●It allows precedence to be assigned to the originators of ideas.
●
●It can be used as a shorthand for explanations and detail by referring 
the reader to a source.
●
●It can reflect the strength of opinion – pro or contra – about a 
research theme.
●
●It demonstrates that the author of the current work is aware of the 
key research and those active in the field.
●
●It allows the author to place his or her work alongside its historical 
background.
The exploratory work of reviewing the literature is often reflected 
in research writing. For example, an Introduction (either to a thesis 
or a research paper) may consider the historical development of a 
subject. This can be used as a device to introduce key concepts 
and their originators, explain theoretical background, mention 
disagreements between past researchers and place the current work 
in a developmental timeline. The Methods or Methodology section may 
similarly refer to extant literature and demonstrate the linkage between 
that and your research and corresponding writing. The Discussion 
section will often include comparisons with previous results or findings. 
In these ways, the threads between research, thinking and writing can 
be drawn through your thesis, to create a cogent, interlinked whole.
Action points
25.1  Find an opportunity to discuss your current research with 
a friend or family member. Afterwards, reflect on how well you 
explained things, what that reveals about your own understanding, 
and what new thoughts about your research have arisen from the 
experience.
306 
Writing up your research
25.2  Review your working practices to see whether you are 
capitalising on all your ideas. Do you ever feel you have ‘lost’ an 
idea because it has been forgotten because ‘life got in the way’? 
Do you keep a notebook or computing device with you at all times 
to ensure this cannot happen? When you have a new idea, do 
you deliberately set down to explore subsidiary threads of thought 
and connections? Do you brainstorm ideas as soon as possible 
and store these notes appropriately? What methods might help to 
improve your productivity?
25.3  Create a ‘system’ for use when reading a new source. 
This might simply be a checklist or table of aspects of your study 
or thesis that you might use to prompt thought on the source’s 
relevance and context in your research position (Ch 18). It could 
also be a ‘map’ of the subject, constructed like a mindmap. If 
these notes or diagrams are stored appropriately, they may assist 
greatly when you come to produce your final draft.
26  The nature of scholarly writing 
307
26
How to produce formal 
writing at PhD level
The nature of scholarly writing
An understanding of the requirements of academic writing for 
research purposes and the developmental process required to reach 
the standards required will help when starting the process of writing 
up your thesis.
Key topics
➔
➔Fundamentals of good scholarly writing
➔
➔The developmental process for scholarly writing
➔
➔Your supervisor as your initial academic audience
Scholarly writing by implication is intended for academic audiences and 
needs to meet the standards judged essential when presenting work to 
specialist and wider academic communities. This does not mean that 
scholarly writing has to be complex in its structures or heavy in style or 
use of language. Its function is to convey ideas clearly, succinctly and 
effectively, so that readers can understand and absorb clean lines of 
thought, argument or discussion, presented in a logical manner.
To develop such a style of writing you need to understand its nature 
and what it requires of you as a developing writer.
Fundamentals of good scholarly writing
Scholarly writing is an expression of higher-order thinking (Ch 17). 
In terms of a PhD thesis, it explains the research journey and its 
outcomes and must fulfil the following criteria:
●
●Accuracy – reporting an accurate account of the research process 
and findings.
308 
Writing up your research
●
●Clarity – writing in a style and format that are easily comprehended.
●
●Balance – providing a considered appraisal of the issue by building 
from the known to unknown (Ch 18).
●
●Originality – reporting research that introduces new knowledge to 
the field (Ch 17).
●
●Objectivity – avoiding bias (Ch 18).
●
●Principled methods – reporting work conducted following 
established methodologies based on ethical procedures for the 
collection of data (Ch 19).
●
●Referencing sources – affording recognition to other contributors in 
the research field by attributing their work following a recognised 
citation and referencing model (Ch 20).
●
●Tentativeness – acknowledging that findings are rarely definitive by 
explaining the uncertainties that exist in the research (Chs 22 and 23).
No single approach applies to all areas since how we write as scholars 
relates to the norms of subject discipline. However, three fundamental 
factors influence all postgraduate writing. These are: 
●
●the precise writing task to be completed (genre);
●
●the intended readership (audience); 
●
●the conventional tone and style of the text (register).
Genre
This term describes types of writing for particular contexts. As a 
postgraduate, you will find that, although writing your thesis is the 
end-goal of your research, writing in different genres will be a part of 
your postgraduate work. 
Find and adopt models of good writing
As you read the literature in your subject, you will note that some 
sources seem to be written better than others. A symptom of this is 
that you are able to comprehend the ‘message’ of the writing easily, 
even though it might involve complex ideas. In contrast, other sources 
will seem impenetrable, jargon-ridden and difficult to understand. Look 
more closely at the well-written sources to see if you can work out how 
the author(s) have achieved their clarity. Look also for the qualities of 
balance, objectivity and tentativeness. Use these sources as a model 
for your own writing.
✔
26  The nature of scholarly writing 
309
Some typical examples are:
●
●Abstracts
●
●Case studies
●
●Critical incidents
●
●Data recording
●
●Essays
●
●Journal articles
●
●Lab reports
●
●Letters and emails 
●
●Literature reviews 
●
●Note-making
●
●Note-taking
●
●Ordinance transfer 
reports
●
●Postgraduate 
feedback
●
●PowerPoint slides
●
●Progress monitoring 
reports
●
●Proposal writing
●
●Reflective analyses
●
●Research notes
●
●Summaries
●
●Surveys
●
●Theses
Each genre requires a subtly different approach to the writing. This 
might mean level of detail, it could mean verb tense, and it might 
include vocabulary. It will be necessary to adopt these different forms 
of language as you write your thesis; others will be required for the 
administrative aspects of the research process. However, all writing 
contributes to your development as an academic author.
Audience
Your audience will include your academic peers in your discipline 
area, so you will need to use professional language in ways that 
are consistent with scholarly principles and expression. Thus, not 
only the language structures, but also the argot (jargon and idiom) 
of the discipline is key to writing for the expert audience. Each 
discipline and even sub-discipline or school of thought has its own 
jargon (shared language). In certain cases, the same word may mean 
different things in different subjects.
However, if your writing is too complex and jargon-rich then your 
reader may simply discard it as impenetrable. Conversely, if it is too 
down-to-earth, then it could appear simplistic and ‘beneath’ your target 
readership. The two examples below show, firstly, an overly complex 
Find models for genre
When writing up your work in a particular genre for the first time, find a 
model you can follow. This might be one of your supervisor’s papers, a 
section of a previous student’s PhD thesis, or a publication from your 
field. Use this as a template for your own writing. This does not mean 
copying it, but rather adopting a similar style.
✔
310 
Writing up your research
piece of writing that would confuse many audiences and, secondly, 
a simpler text is that is clear, neutral and understandable by most 
audiences.
Example 1
These neophyte cognitive developers have innate resistance to the inculcation of 
cerebral processing in relation to technological ramifications of knowledge acquisition. 
Absence of verbal intercourse in cognitive fora aggravates their detachment from reality 
and reinforces isolationism.
Example 2
These new students have a natural fear of using technology in learning. Their silence in 
lectures adds to their isolation from the learning process.
The first version comprises 36 words while the second uses only 24 
words. The difference in word count provides another good reason for 
simpler writing.
Register
Tenor or register in scholarly writing is important. Traditionally, writing 
in a formal tone is expected. Language should follow the rules of 
grammar, including sentence and paragraph structure, punctuation and 
spelling. For example, it would not be appropriate to use contractions 
or slang expression. Therefore, the sentence ‘We ain’t gonna spend too 
long banging on about this’ would be entirely out of place in scholarly 
text and would perhaps be expressed more formally as ‘Little time will 
be spent considering this point’.
This is an extreme example and modern approaches in some 
disciplines are less stringent with regard to some aspects of language 
use such as passive voice, first person singular/plural and a more 
conversational register. However, the academic world is often very 
conservative in its practices and, if in doubt, it is best to opt for the 
more formal option. Scholarly writing should never replicate spoken 
language.
Some students find that writing can present difficulties. This may 
simply be because they are unsure of the expectations, conventions 
and practices (Chs 27 and 30).
26  The nature of scholarly writing 
311
The developmental process for scholarly 
writing
Table 26.1 contrasts the nature of undergraduate and postgraduate 
writing. As this table illustrates, the writing process for PhD level 
research probably requires new and higher-level skills than the type 
of work you have been carrying out until now. Essentially, as an 
undergraduate, your research and writing skills will have been driven 
by the demands of your coursework; as a postgraduate you will still 
have to conform to university regulations but within those confines 
you will have considerably more latitude in how you learn and to what 
end. While this may seem obvious, what may be less obvious is how 
differences in your approach to study will manifest itself in the nature of 
your academic writing.
Practical institutional guidance on the specifics of producing writing 
for thesis purposes is variable. The level of detail can vary widely and 
relate more to presentational features (Ch 30) and generalisations 
about aspects such as plagiarism (Ch 20). Therefore, in practice, 
new scholars can find it often difficult to identify sources of advice in 
respect of the structure, the writing style, the structuring of content 
and the thinking that should characterise writing related to the 
research process. Those new to formal academic writing often find 
that they have to ‘second guess’ the implicit ‘rules of the game’ with 
the postgraduate common room, office or laboratory providing fertile 
Have you access to suitable reference resources for 
your writing?
Until now, you might have succeeded by using the spelling/grammar 
and thesaurus functions on your word-processor. PhD writing probably 
requires more authoritative reference works, and you will probably need 
these on or near your desk. The minimum requirements are:
■
■a high-quality and extensive dictionary (such as the Shorter Oxford 
Dictionary, Stevenson, 2007);
■
■a thesaurus (such as Collin’s A–Z thesaurus, Crozier and Gilmour, 
2006 – in a more user-friendly format than traditional thesaurii);
■
■a guidebook for writing (such as An A–Z of English grammar and 
usage, Leech et al., 2001).
?
312 
Writing up your research
grounds for the creation of folklore about the nature of writing at this 
level – often anecdotally based on the personal preferences of an 
individual supervisor or department.
Lack of explicit direction on writing the thesis may be attributable to 
different reasons. In one respect, at the outset, this may seem less 
relevant than setting up the research project. In another respect, 
because supervisors are successful academics they may be unaware 
of the writing difficulties that their postgraduate students may 
anticipate, unless they have themselves found writing problematic. 
Another view is that accessing the formal regulations and working out 
how to write the thesis is, in a sense, seen as an indicator of deeper 
thinking and of the initiative expected at this level.
Whatever your situation, your supervisor will be the person who will 
monitor your research work and the writing that relates to it. You 
Table 26.1  The contrasting nature of undergraduate and postgraduate 
writing.
Undergraduate writing
Postgraduate writing
Strict guidelines defined in 
handbook
Guidelines general and implicit rather than 
articulated; understanding and knowledge 
of these tends to be assumed
Short lead time and fixed deadline
Deadline in months and years
Relatively short but complete text
Intermittent writing episodes but with need 
to produce much longer integrated text
Essay or report format
‘Traditional’ thesis format or more 
innovative structure chosen by writer
Writing in response to set task, 
topic or question
Themes, topics and approaches identified 
by the writer
Limited literature search often 
based on secondary source 
material
Extensive literature search based on 
seminal works and cutting-edge research 
sources
Possible short answer formats in 
coursework and exams
Varied styles for publication, presentation 
and thesis
May be exclusively technical in 
content with minimal prose
Extensive prose explanations and analysis 
based on own and others’ research
Feedback in grade format with 
additional individual written 
guidance in some cases on 
response to task rather than writing 
Feedback intermittent; may focus on 
content in earlier stages with language 
issues highlighted – in detail or in general
26  The nature of scholarly writing 
313
will write in a variety of genres such as those listed earlier and your 
supervisor will be your first critical audience. Consequently, it is as well 
to be aware of the expectations that your supervisor will have of you.
Your supervisor as your initial academic 
audience
When you were an undergraduate, your written coursework represented 
a ‘private’ dialogue between you and the academic who graded 
your work and provided some written feedback. Depending on the 
institution, there may have been an element of anonymity about this 
process. Hence, some students may not even know the identity of the 
person who assessed their work, let alone have a conversation about 
the strengths and weaknesses of their writing or the subject content.
At postgraduate level, this is not the case. The ‘solo’ nature of 
undergraduate writing alters because supervisors have a much more 
direct relationship with their research students and, consequently, 
with their writing. This is still a private dialogue, but is one that will 
eventually reach a wider audience. Hence, your supervisor will have a 
more influential impact on what and how you write based on certain 
assumptions. Table 26.2 shows how shifts in perception, assumption 
and expectation apply to the academic in these different roles. Thus, at 
the outset of your working relationship, it is as well to be aware of how 
your supervisor may view your writing.
However, scholars new to postgraduate study may be hesitant to ask 
for definitive guidance on writing from supervisors. This can be for a 
number of reasons such as a fear of looking stupid in the eyes of the 
supervisor because as postgraduates they feel that they should know 
about writing. However, more often, it is simply that students do not 
know until they have started writing what the questions might be. While 
Take control of your writing skills
Chapter 5 discussed the need to take control over your own 
development as a novice researcher. This applies equally well to 
writing. Have a look at the courses offered within the postgraduate 
training scheme to see if any suit your needs; see if there are online 
courses or textbooks that could help; find out if there are any 
specialised language tutors for postgraduates. Sign up; read up; apply.
✔
314 
Writing up your research
Table 26.2  Academic roles in relation to student writing. This shows the 
changing role of the academic as assessor or supervisor as you progress from 
undergraduate to postgraduate level.
As assessor of undergraduate 
assignments
As supervisor of postgraduate 
Assumes good writing style and 
competence
Assumes competence and sophistication 
in writing style 
Expects ability to self-correct with 
moderate guidance
Expects ability to self-correct with 
minimal guidance
Accepts simpler, less technical 
language
Expects use of more sophisticated 
language and technical terms
In some subjects, requires short 
pieces of writing rather than 
extended prose; accepts effects of 
limited exposure to conventions of 
academic writing
Aware that some students may never have 
had to write academic prose previously 
and recognises unfamiliarity with style, 
levels of formality, specialist language use 
in earlier stages of writing up
Places more focus on content 
and response to set task than on 
language or style
Expects facility with modifying language, 
for example, combining sentences for 
conciseness and improved information 
flow
May tolerate less coherent discourse 
[although not recommended]
Dislikes ‘padding’ expressions, clichés 
and circuitous explanations
Accepts use of first person 
sometimes but may advise 
avoidance in other assignments
Permits and may encourage selective use 
of first person depending on context or 
referencing style 
Tolerates some measure of colloquial 
style [although not recommended]
Expects more formal, and hence less 
colloquial, register as norm for thesis and 
publication
acknowledging this, early discussion with your supervisor about the 
general principles of academic writing is recommended because this 
will help you develop your understanding of possible strategies and 
models that may be possible within your field.
Action points
26.1  Check out guidance for submission of theses in your own 
institution. These may include guidance on writing, or directions to 
relevant guidance sources.
26  The nature of scholarly writing 
315
26.2  Discuss writing preferences with your supervisor. Clarify 
preferences in relation to language usage issues such as passive 
voice, use of contractions, abbreviations and specialist language. 
Having this conversation at an early point in your working 
relationship will save you inordinate amounts of time when you 
are writing. For example, having to rewrite an entire paper using 
passive voice and other features of formal register in accordance 
with your supervisor’s preferences will be both time-consuming 
and irksome. 
26.3  Ask a fellow student, friend or family member to read a 
sample of your writing. It might be better if they are not familiar 
with your subject. Ask them to comment on the style of your 
writing, whether it is easily understood, and whether they can 
appreciate the logic and sense of your text, even though they may 
need to take some facts or jargon for granted.
316 
Writing up your research
27
How to construct 
effective academic text
Scholarly writing style
Scholarly writing has its own style, with modifications for each 
discipline. Having a grasp of the organisation of this form of writing 
will help you to develop your own style and organise the text of your 
thesis appropriately.
Key topics
➔
➔The organisation of the discourse of text
➔
➔Functional aspects of written text
➔
➔The organisation of paragraphs and sentences within text
➔
➔Aspects of language used in academic writing
Research writing takes time to develop. Your final thesis will be your 
best writing, but it will be the product of a process consisting of many 
drafts, false starts and discarded work before it reaches the near 
perfect state of the final version. To help you embark on the process of 
developing your writing, this chapter explains some of the discursive 
language frameworks that underpin the construction of good academic 
text.
Why is the composition of writing important?
Some people write well naturally, while others need to work at it. 
Scholarly writing places a premium on clear logical expression, which 
requires an underpinning structure. This, in turn, requires very high 
levels of skill in writing. An awareness of some of the technical aspects 
of academic writing will help you to improve these skills and construct 
your thesis to the expected standard.
?
27  Scholarly writing style 
317
The organisation of the discourse of text
Working out how to organise and explain the huge body of ideas 
and information that you will derive from the literature and your own 
research can present a daunting challenge especially in the early 
stages of your postgraduate studies. However, writing your thesis can 
become a less formidable prospect if you have some insights into the 
structuring of academic text.
New writing challenges
Many disciplines at undergraduate level require little extensive writing, 
concentrating instead on data handling or truncated forms of writing 
such as short answers. Consequently, students can find themselves 
outside their writing ‘comfort zone’ at postgraduate level, because they 
will be expected to write extensively in ways of which they have little 
experience. As a result, many novice PhD researchers need to work 
hard at developing their writing. An awareness of the ways in which 
scholarly writing is achieved and of the associated skills is fundamental 
to successful thesis completion.
i
The research work of discourse analysts has contributed to a greater 
understanding of how language is constructed at sentence, paragraph 
and text levels for different genres, formats and disciplines. Analysis of 
scholarly writing has identified a basic model common to text in most 
academic disciplines, that is, one that identifies three fundamental 
elements: introduction, main body and conclusion. If we add to 
that format the principle of leading readers from general to specific 
points and after that back to general points, then an outline model of 
academic writing begins to emerge (Figure 27.1). This structure can 
be applied to the format of the full thesis, to the individual chapters 
and even to paragraphs. Chapter 28 uses this model to construct 
the different chapters of a thesis. Here, the focus is on the different 
elements in discourse terms rather than in the specifics of the thesis.
Figure 27.2(a) shows the introductory element of Figure 27.1 as a 
scene-setting section covering:
●
●The general context of the text or topic – what the text is about, 
defining the parameters of the discussion within the wider field.
●
●The specific issue to be examined – what particular aspect will be 
318 
Writing up your research
examined and possibly what will be excluded from that examination 
giving reasons for this choice.
●
●The ‘statement of intent’ – how the examination of the topic will be 
addressed in detail so that the reader is provided with a ‘map’ of the 
writer’s thought process. With this insight into what to expect in the 
text, the reader can reflect on what they anticipate will be covered.
●
●The transition to the main body – how the writer prepares the reader 
for the specific detailed discussion of the topic.
The final section, (Figure 27.2(b)), draws the work to a conclusion by:
●
●restating the key theme of the work – outlining the main focus and 
purpose of the text;
●
●reviewing key issues raised in the main body of the text – reminding 
the reader of the main aspects explaining these in a concise way by 
using more technical/professional language;
●
●stating key conclusions derived from the main body of the discussion 
– an assertive stance on the conclusions reached within the text;
●
●placing conclusions in the wider context of the study – resituating 
the topic within the broader body of knowledge.
Figure 27.1  The basic structure of academic text. This diagram shows the 
fundamental structure of a typical piece of academic text working from the top 
to the bottom of the diagram. Note that each section in a chapter, for example, 
will comprise a number of paragraphs.
General
Specific
Specific
General
Introduction
Main body
Conclusion 
27  Scholarly writing style 
319
There may seem to be a degree of repetition between the introductory 
and concluding sections. However, in practice, the difference is that 
the introductory section is expressed using simpler language formats 
and less specialised terms. By contrast, the concluding paragraphs 
use more sophisticated expression and terminology introduced in 
the main body. The latter will also refer to the results or arguments 
described in the main body whereas the introductory section mainly 
involves scene-setting.
The main body of the text should present a reasoned explanation 
of individual points following recognised steps of logic as part of 
the greater whole. However, different approaches are possible, 
using either inductive or deductive logic. These can be explained as 
follows:
●
●Inductive model of text structure – the writer begins by presenting 
the supporting information and concludes with the main point.
●
●Deductive model of text structure – the writer moves from the key 
idea and follows it with supporting information or evidence.
These models may be deployed according to customary discipline 
style. Some disciplines favour the inductive approach while others 
use the deductive approach. Sometimes also, there is no consistency 
within a discipline area with one academic differing in their preferences 
from a colleague in the same discipline. In other disciplines these 
approaches may be used as seen fit as a stylistic feature to vary the 
rhythm used in your writing.
Figure 27.2  Typical structures (a) of introductory paragraphs; (b) of 
concluding paragraphs. The writer would usually cover these topics in order 
from the top to the bottom of the diagram.
General context of the text/ topic
Specific issue to be examined in detail
Statement of intent
Transition to the
main body
Restates the key
theme of work
Reviews key issues raised
in the main body of the text
States key conclusions derived
from main body discussion
Places conclusions in wider context of the study
General
General
(a)
(b)
Specific
Specific
320 
Writing up your research
Functional aspects of written text
Another dimension that academic writers need to consider involves 
taking into account what they are trying to do in relation to their text. 
For example, do they wish to describe, outline, analyse, compare or 
give definitions? These examples represent aspects of the text known 
in language terms as ‘functions’. The functions most commonly used 
in scholarly writing and the typical discourse markers employed to 
achieve them are shown in Table 27.1.
Having a grasp of these functions can help when writing, especially when 
considering the purpose of the different sentences and paragraphs in your 
text. Sometimes this understanding comes subconsciously and naturally 
as you write, but at other times you will struggle with words. In such 
cases the question ‘what am I trying to achieve here?’ might help, and 
the answer might come from Table 27.1. For complex thought patterns, 
Examples of inductive and deductive logic in 
writing
The sequences of statements shown here could represent the themes 
of sentences within a paragraph.
Inductive model – moving from examples to general principle(s)
1	 Postgraduate students of nursing use action research in their 
doctoral studies.
2	 Postgraduate students of education use action research in their 
doctoral studies.
3	 Postgraduate students of social work use action research in their 
doctoral studies.
4	 Therefore, all postgraduate students in the caring professions use 
action research in their doctoral studies.
Deductive model – moving from general principle(s) to particular 
instances
1	 All postgraduate students in the caring professions use action 
research in their doctoral studies.
2	 Person A is a postgraduate student of nursing.
3	 Person B is a postgraduate student of social work.
4	 Therefore, Persons A and B use action research in their doctoral 
studies.
i
27  Scholarly writing style 
321
Table 27.1  Important functions in scholarly writing with corresponding 
discourse markers.
Function
Discourse markers
Adding
• additionally
• again 
• also
• and
• and then
• as well as
• besides (this)
• either . . . or . . .
• equally
• furthermore,
• in addition to
• indeed, 
• in fact,
• moreover,
• neither. . .nor
• not only (X) but also (Y)
• or
• too, 
• what is more,
Cause (outlining)
• as
• as a result of
• because
• because of
• due to
• for the reason that
• for
• inasmuch as
• in response to
• in that
• since
Comparing
• by the same token
• compared with 
• in like manner
• in comparison with
• in the same way
• likewise
• similarly
Conditions 
(presenting)
• even if
• if
• given that
• on condition that
• only if
• providing that
• unless
Contrasting and 
conceding
• although
• besides
• but 
• by way of contrast, 
• conversely
• despite (this)
• even though
• however,
• on the contrary, . . .
• on the other hand, . . .
• regardless (of this)
• still . . . 
• in contrast,
• in spite of (this)
• instead,
• naturally,
• nevertheless,
• nonetheless,
• notwithstanding
• of course,
• though, 
• whereas . . .
• while . . .
• yet, . . .
Continued overleaf
322 
Writing up your research
Effect (outlining)
• accordingly, 
• as a 
• as a consequence 
• because of 
• consequently,  
• for that reason 
• hence
• so that 
• so 
• so much so that  
• the consequence is 
that . . . then
• therefore
• thus
Exemplifying
• as (evidence of)
• as an illustration, 
• especially, 
• for example, 
• for instance,  
• including 
• in particular, 
• let us take (the case of . . .)
• like 
• notably,  
• particularly, 
• such as 
• thus,  
• to demonstrate this 
• to illustrate this 
Giving alternatives
• again
• alternatively
• better still
• on the other hand
• the alternative is 
Inferring
• if not 
• in (that) case
• otherwise
• that implies
• then
Numbering
• at first, 
• firstly, secondly, etc.
• finally,  
• initially, 
• in the first place, 
• last,  
• next,  
• to begin with, 
• then,
Reasons (giving)
• as 
• as a result of 
• because  
• due to 
• in order that 
• in order to 
• in response to 
• since 
• so as to
• so that 
Results (giving)
• accordingly, 
• as a result, 
• consequently,  
• for the reason that 
• therefore, 
• hence, 
• the consequence is that 
• then
• thus, 
Reformulating
• in other words, 
• rather,  
• that is to say, 
• to put it more simply, 
• to paraphrase
27  Scholarly writing style 
323
Summarising/ 
concluding
• finally, 
• eventually, 
• hence, 
• in all 
• in conclusion, 
• in short, 
• to sum up, 
• in brief, 
• lastly, 
• to summarise
• therefore, 
• thus, 
• to conclude, 
Time sequencing
• after (a while)
• afterwards
• at first 
• at last
• at the same time 
• before (that time)
• eventually, 
• finally, 
• in the end, 
• meanwhile, 
• next,  
• previously, 
• since (then)
• so far
• subsequently, 
• then
• (up to) then
Transition (making) 
• as far as . . . is concerned, 
• as for 
• incidentally, 
• now 
• to turn to
• with (reference) to 
pondering about the functions you are trying to perform might help you 
to disentangle the different elements of your position or argument. In 
addition to those listed in Table 27.1, the following functions are also 
found in academic texts: arguing; categorising; classifying; conceding; 
counter-arguing; defining; describing (appearance, function, operation, 
position, time); elaborating; enumerating; explaining; listing; opining (giving 
an opinion); reformulating; refuting; reporting; replacing; and sequencing.
The organisation of sentences and paragraphs 
within text
Sentences in paragraphs
Understanding the role of some of types of sentence will help you to 
understand how these contribute to the paragraphs of which they are 
the building blocks. Table 27.2 lists some different types of sentence 
while Figure 27.3 illustrates their use in a representative paragraph.
Paragraphs in text
Paragraph formats vary according to the function that they are 
performing in the particular text. The example in Figure 27.3, for 
324 
Writing up your research
Table 27.2  Some types of sentences used in paragraphs.
Type of sentence
Role in paragraph
Topic introducer sentence (TI)
Introduces the overall topic of the text (generally 
in the very first paragraph)
Topic sentence (TS)
Introduces a paragraph by identifying the topic 
of that paragraph
Developer sentence (DS)
Expands the topic by giving additional information
Modulator sentence (MS)
Acts as a linking sentence and is often 
introduced by a signpost word moving to another 
aspect of the topic within the same paragraph
Terminator or transition 
sentence (TERS)
Concludes the discussion of a topic within a 
paragraph, but can also be used to provide a 
link to the topic of the next paragraph
example, is a paragraph that is describing a situation; from a different 
perspective, it might be seen as reporting cause and effect. This 
suggests that the function of some paragraphs depends on their 
position in the text. Table 27.3 shows some different paragraph 
models. These are then exemplified in Table 27.4.
Aspects of language used in academic writing
Analysis of the organisation of text gives insights into the use of the 
language within academic writing, as discussed below.
Water quality and quantity are major 
preoccupations on a global scale. Both drought 
and flood are making major impacts on 
ecosystems. These factors can manifest 
themselves in erosion and land subsidence. 
However, human interventions contribute to the 
problems. For example, irrigation programmes 
and industrial activity can interfere with water 
flow through arterial river systems. Together 
these factors affect the availability and quality of 
water, which can have adverse effects on the 
health of humans and livestock.
Topic sentence
Developer sentences
Signpost words/
Discourse markers
Modulator sentence
Developer sentence
Terminator/transition
sentence
Figure 27.3  Illustration of how sentences make up a typical paragraph.
27  Scholarly writing style 
325
Table 27.3  Outlines of paragraph models. These outlines can be compared with the texts modelling the structure in Table 27.4.
Describing paragraphs: 
appearance/position 
Describing paragraphs: time 
sequence
Describing paragraphs: process (how 
it works)
Defining
Topic introducer 
Developer(s) 
Terminator 
Tip: Move from top to 
bottom; left to right; centre 
to perimeter
Method 1
Event a + event b + event c
Method 2
By date order
Topic introducer 
Developer 1
Developer 2
Modulator
Developer 1a
Developer 1b
Terminator sentence
Topic sentence
Example 1
Example 2
Example 3
Terminator sentence 
Tip: Don’t use a different 
form of the word being 
defined in order to define it
Classifying
Exemplifying
Generalising
Listing
Topic sentence
Example 1
Example 2
Terminator sentence 
identifying category
Topic sentence
Example 1
Example 2
Restatement sentence or terminator 
sentence
Method 1
Developer 1
Developer 2
Topic sentence (generalisation)
Method 2
Generalisation
Developer 1
Developer 2
Restatement sentence
Topic sentence
Developer sentence
Modulator sentence
Terminator sentence
Relating cause or effect 
(Method 1)
Relating cause or effect (Method 2)
Comparing
Contrasting
Topic introducer
Topic sentence
Developer 1
Developer 2
Modulator
Developer 3
Developer 4
Terminator/restatement 
sentence
Topic introducer
Topic sentence
Developer 1 Theme A
Developer 2 Theme A
Modulator (transfer to B)
Developer 1 Theme B
Developer 2 Theme B
Terminator/restatement sentence
Topic introducer
Topic sentence
Developer 1 Theme A
Developer 2 Theme A
Modulator (transfer to B)
Developer 1 Theme B
Developer 2 Theme B
Terminator/restatement sentence
Topic introducer
Topic sentence
Developer 1 Theme A
Developer 1 Theme B
Developer 2 Theme A
Developer 2 Theme B
Terminator
Restatement sentence
326 
Writing up your research
Table 27.4  Paragraph models as text. These texts can be compared with the outlines shown in Table 27.3.
Describing paragraphs: 
appearance/position 
Describing paragraphs: time 
sequence
Describing paragraphs: process 
(how it works)
Defining
The Loch Ness monster is a 
beast of legend. It is depicted 
as a long snake-like amphibian 
showing three humps above 
the water line and a head that 
resembles the mythical dragon. 
Its length is unknown as it has 
never been seen in Loch Ness.
Method 1
Total hip replacement requires 
post-operative physiotherapy. In 
addition, a follow-up visit may 
be offered at 6-weeks and again 
after 1 year to check the patient’s 
mobility.
Method 2
Three major events influenced 
the creation of the European 
Community. Chronologically, 
these were the Second World 
War and the creation of the 
Council of Europe. The final event 
was the success of the European 
Coal and Steel Community.
Academics submit a proposal 
for an article to a journal. This 
is considered by an editorial 
committee and perhaps a peer 
reviewer. Once approval has 
been given the academic can 
begin writing. This will involve 
conducting a literature survey 
and reporting their own findings. 
When completed, the article is 
submitted for approval.
Scholarly writing requires 
particular skills that need to 
be developed. The writer must 
have a good understanding 
of language. A sound base of 
knowledge of the subject area 
and the specific topic is essential. 
A third requirement is that of 
patience for frequent re-drafting 
and editing will be necessary.
Classifying
Exemplifying
Generalising
Listing
International organisations 
can be divided into two broad 
categories: intergovernmental 
and non-governmental 
organisations (IGOs and NGOs). 
Further sub-division can be 
made, for example, into global
Historians look at authentic 
documents to investigate their 
topic. For example, they may 
look at old parish records or at 
reports from criminal courts to 
explore levels of crime in the 19th 
century.
Method 1
Children learn to talk by listening. 
They also experiment by making 
‘baby’ sounds. Children whose 
parents speak to them regularly 
are more likely to learn to speak 
quickly.
The biologist Linnaeus developed 
a taxonomy classifying plants. 
There are seven levels: kingdom, 
phylum, class, order, family, 
genus and species. These taxa 
were identified on the basis of the 
structure of the flower. 
27  Scholarly writing style 
327
and global organisations. These 
can then be divided by function, 
for example, defence, education, 
economy, health.
Method 2
Babies who speak early hear 
language from an early age. 
Parents who speak to their small 
babies can encourage this. 
Such claims are supported by 
anecdotal evidence.
Linnaeus’ principles have been 
used to classify other structures, 
for example, international 
organisations.
Relating cause or effect 
(Method 1)
Relating cause or effect 
(Method 2)
Comparing
Contrasting
The existence of significant 
numbers of smokers in 
developed countries can be 
attributed to several causes. 
Smokers report that social 
pressures forced them to smoke. 
Others state that daily stress 
made them become smokers. 
Statistics imply that advertising 
plays a key role in the uptake of 
smoking. The cheapness and 
accessibility of cigarettes are also 
cited as causes. There appears 
to be no single factor that can 
account for the use of nicotine as 
a social drug.
Changes in attitudes towards 
smoking have had a number of 
effects. Smoking is recognised as 
socially unacceptable. Demands 
for protection from passive 
smoking have risen with the 
effect that smoking is no longer 
permitted in public buildings. 
Changes have also come about 
in relation to health issues and 
smoking. Health professionals 
are more willing to challenge 
smokers about their habit. 
Smokers are given more active 
encouragement to quit. The net 
result is a downturn in smoking-
related illness.
Some research work has been 
done on the subject of water 
supply and quality. Problems 
exist in accessing water and in 
some countries bore wells are 
sunk to reach a supply. In other 
countries, dams, reservoirs 
and supply infrastructures 
have been created to ensure 
supplies. Where such initiatives 
have taken place, there have 
been unforeseen problems. The 
bore wells can be polluted by 
arsenic and reservoirs succumb 
to contamination. New ways 
of ensuring water supply must 
guarantee safe and clean water. 
Electronic book readers are 
relatively new. Some people 
love them; others loathe them. 
Those who like them like the 
convenience. Others find them 
awkward to handle and use. 
Aficionados like their portability. 
The disaffected fear that their 
portability makes them an 
attractive target for thieves. 
Opinion thus far remains divided. 
This suggests that more time will 
be needed before bookshops 
become directly threatened and 
the electronic book becomes the 
only option.
328 
Writing up your research
Collocations
This term used to describe words that are commonly used together. In 
the current context, two types are of interest: 
●
●‘Clusters’ comprising three-, four- or five-word groupings. Examples 
include: ‘the extent to which’; ‘is defined as’; ‘it was found that’. 
Such groupings represent a kind of ‘shorthand’ that allows readers 
to process content more quickly because they can be used to link 
key information. Clusters are frequently used to show relationships 
to the research (location, procedure, quantification, description and 
topic), while others relate to the organisation of the text.
●
●Noun groupings. Strings of words – sometimes adjective + noun 
[dysfunctional + family (social work)]; other times verb + noun 
[eliminate + famine (epidemiology)] – that are commonly used 
together to express ideas that are particular to the theme or subject 
of study.
Certain cluster and noun groupings (sometimes called ‘strings’) 
are specific to disciplines while others are more prevalent in one 
than another. This indicates the importance of undertaking some 
intensive study of these ‘cluster’ expressions in your own discipline 
to identify commonly used devices, so that your writing adopts the 
discipline norms or ‘mode of discourse’. This will eventually become a 
subconscious activity, but as a novice academic writer you may need 
to think things through as you write.
Discourse markers
As discussed above and shown in Table 27.1, discourse markers act as 
signpost words – the ‘glue’ that brings cohesion to text. These relate 
to functions and so bring a sense of logic to the text. The importance 
of using such terms in your own work is important because they help 
guide your reader through the complexity of extended writing and help 
to make linkages between the points you seek to make in your writing.
Critiquing your own writing
Sometimes paragraphs expand to become overlong and people are 
unsure about how they can be split to make more reader-friendly 
text. In this situation, it can be useful to analyse long paragraphs in 
terms of function and then apply the paragraph models concept to 
indicate where separations can be inserted to achieve shorter, clearer 
paragraphs.
✔
27  Scholarly writing style 
329
These features are only some of the conventions – often unspoken 
– that are expected to be observed in academic writing. Table 27.5 
outlines some more simple rules that will help you to develop as an 
academic author and will save time at proofing stage because you will 
have avoided some basic errors of usage or expression.
Table 27.5  Conventions in language use and grammar in academic writing.
Absolute terms
In academic writing, it is important to be cautious about using absolute terms 
such as:
always and never      most and all      least and none 
This does not mean that these words should never be used; simply that they 
should be used with caution, that is, when you are absolutely certain of your 
ground.
Acronyms
These are formed by taking the initial letters of a name of an organisation, a 
procedure or an apparatus and then using these letters instead of writing out 
the title in full. Thus, World Health Organisation becomes WHO. The convention 
is that the first time that you use a title with an acronym alternative, then you 
should write it in full with the acronym in brackets immediately after the full title. 
Thereafter within that document you can use the acronym. For example: 
The European Free Trade Association (EFTA) has close links with the European 
Community (EC). Both EFTA and the EC require new members to have 
membership of the Council of Europe as a prerequisite for admission to their 
organisations.
And and But
In academic writing, sentences should never begin with ‘and’ or ‘but’ – these are 
joining words used to unite two independent ideas within a sentence.
Clichés
Living languages change and develop over time. This means that some expressions 
come into such frequent usage that they lose their meaning; indeed, often they 
could be replaced with a much less long-winded expression. For example, 
First and foremost (firstly,. . .); last but not least (finally, . . .)
This procedure is the gold standard of hip replacement methods. (This procedure 
is the best hip replacement method.)
Colloquialism
This use of language is regarded as informal and more common in spoken than in 
written language. Colloquialisms would generally not be used in academic writing. 
For example, the following would be inappropriate: ‘Not to beat about the bush or 
mince my words, that is a load of rubbish!’
Continued overleaf
330 
Writing up your research
Contractions
In spoken English, contractions such as ‘don’t’, ‘can’t’, isn’t, ‘it’s’, ‘I’d’ and ‘we’ll’ 
are often used. However, in academic written English, they should not be used.
Gender-free expression
Try to use gender-free expressions by using plurals. For example, instead of 
writing: ‘Students asked each colleague to give his or her time to the project’ the 
alternative plural construction would be preferred: ‘Students asked colleagues to 
give their time to the project’.
‘Hedging’ language 
Often in academic writing it is impossible to state categorically that something 
is or is not the case. There are verbs that allow you to ‘hedge your bets’ by 
not coming down on one side or another of an argument or for allowing you 
present a variety of different scenarios without committing yourself to any single 
position:
seems that      suggests that      looks as if      appears that
This involves using a language construction that leaves the reader with the sense 
that the evidence presented is simply presenting a hypothetical, or imaginary, 
case. To emphasise this sense of ‘hedging’ the use of a special kind of verb 
called a modal is introduced. These verbs are called modal auxiliary (‘helper’) 
verbs:
can/cannot      may/may not      could/could not      might/might not
These can be used with a variety of verbs to increase the sense of tentativeness. 
For example: ‘These results suggest that there has been a decline in herring 
stocks in the North Sea.’
More tentatively, using the modal, this could be: ‘These results could suggest that 
there has been a decline in herring stocks in the North Sea.’
Idiom and slang
These are usually colloquial and are used in different ways. For example, where: 
• the language is used in such a way that the meaning is difficult to interpret 
because there is no apparent link between the words – to give someone short 
shrift;
• the literal sense is only partial in explaining the meaning – to strike while the 
iron is hot;
• the whole meaning can be guessed from the parts – as the crow flies.
Thus, idioms should be avoided in academic writing because they are sometimes 
unclear or simply in vogue for a short time. Their use in academic text might be 
perceived as inappropriate to the genre and register.
Impersonal language
Impersonal expression is encouraged in many disciplines and this means that 
the passive voice is the standard. In other disciplines, especially those which 
embrace reflective writing, then the active voice and use of the first person is 
expected. If you are unsure, speak with your supervisor about this.
27  Scholarly writing style 
331
Personal pronouns
Experiment with other language structures so that you avoid the personal 
pronouns – I/me, you, we/us and one. Generally, these are avoided in academic 
writing although there are instances in which they may be appropriate, for 
example, in reflective writing or writing about group research.
Rhetorical questions
Some writers use direct rhetorical questions as stylistic vehicle to introduce the 
topic addressed by the question. However, although this is a good strategy if 
you are making a speech, it does not have the same power in academic writing. 
Therefore: ‘How do plants survive in dry weather?’ becomes ‘Understanding how 
plants survive in dry weather is important’. 
Signposting
You can guide your reader through your text by using appropriate ‘signpost’ 
words from the discourse marker list (Table 27.1). For example, if you are 
presenting a point of contrast, then you would use ‘however’; or if you are 
presenting a list of points, then you might use ‘firstly,. . .’. 
Pronouns that ‘demonstrate’ some reference to something already mentioned 
are ‘this’, ‘these’, ‘that’ and ‘those’. In academic writing it is often better to back 
reference to the concept or thing being represented by such words. For example, 
rather than writing the following in relation to the plan of a new motorway: ‘This 
will take ten years to complete’ you should consider writing: ‘This project will take 
ten years to complete’. This addition ensures clarity and precision.
Split infinitives
A commonly quoted split infinitive comes from the Star Trek television series 
where the Captain’s Log records that the aim of the Star Ship Enterprise is 
‘to boldly go where no man has gone before’. Although this makes good 
television, its effect has outlived the television programme. This usage has 
evoked sometimes passionate debate ever since, because ‘to boldly go’ is a 
split infinitive. This means that an adverb (boldly) has split the infinitive (to go). It 
should read as ‘to go boldly’. A split infinitive is regarded as poor English in some 
quarters and the tendency is to avoid this kind of structure in academic writing.
Tense
This grammatical term is used to describe how verbs are used to indicate the time 
of the action. In general, tenses can be divided into three categories – past, present 
and future. The tense you need to use will depend on the context of your work, for 
example, whether you are narrating a sequence of events in the past, whether you 
are discussing concepts or whether you are conjecturing about events in the future. 
Voice: active or passive
The academic world is divided on whether the active or passive voice should be 
used in academic writing. The difference between these two forms is perhaps 
best shown in two examples: 
1. Active voice: ‘We deprived the plants of water for six days.’
2. Passive voice: ‘The plants were deprived of water for six days.’
332 
Writing up your research
Action points
27.1  Study your supervisor’s publications. Read some of your 
supervisor’s publications and try to identify how they present 
their reasoning – inductively or deductively. Look also at the 
publications of other experts in your field and try to identify the 
same thing. This could help you to understand how your supervisor 
may expect you to present your logic in writing; it may also 
suggest discipline practices in this respect.
27.2  Analyse your own writing. The more you write, the more 
you will develop your own personal style. Sometimes, however, 
writers overuse certain expressions – especially discourse markers 
– which can make their text seem repetitive and dull. You can use 
the list of discourse markers in Table 27.1 (a) to check your usage 
and (b) to expand your options for any overused cohesive terms. 
27.3  Collect collocations and synonyms. Collecting your own 
‘glossary’ as soon as you begin exploring the literature can be a 
helpful aid to developing your writing in your field. A collocation 
dictionary may help you to you may find alternatives to replace 
a verb or adjective that you may have overused in your writing. 
Synonyms (words similar in meaning) can be found by using a 
good thesaurus. A further way in which you can become more 
conversant with specialist terms and frequently used collocations 
in your field is to analyse published papers to identify some of 
the language structures and terms that are commonly used in this 
standard of writing.
Choosing between active and passive voice
The passive voice focuses attention on the action rather than the 
actor and helps to maintain objectivity in this an impersonal style. 
Note that some referencing styles require the active as simpler and 
easier to understand (Ch 20). The rules are not hard and fast but many 
academics have strong views in favour of one or other. It is advisable 
to consult your supervisor to find out if they or your department have 
any stated preferences.
i
28  Elements of a thesis 
333
28
How to structure and write 
up the different sections
Elements of a thesis
The model for PhD thesis structure differs across the disciplines, 
and especially across the ‘arts–science divide’, but there are some 
common or analogous components which adopt similar principles of 
content and presentation. The guidance offered in this chapter can 
be adapted to suit specific discipline requirements.
Key topics
➔
➔Deciding on content
➔
➔Structural options
➔
➔Preliminary material
➔
➔The main generic thesis elements
Different models of research lead to different models of thesis 
writing. There will therefore be a discipline practice with which you 
will be expected to conform. Matters of content and structure are 
linked, but usually your thesis content should drive the fine detail of 
its structure.
For many, a student–supervisor discussion about possible content and 
structure will occur after about two years of full-time equivalent study. 
At this point you will have a good idea of progress and what you plan 
to achieve in the remaining time at your disposal.
Deciding on content
In some cases, there will be a breakthrough event or a moment when 
the theme of your thesis becomes clear or self-evident. For example, 
if a trial method works, then this may open up a clear avenue of 
334 
Writing up your research
research, leading to obvious content and structure. You might find a 
sudden understanding following a meeting, seminar or when reading 
a particular research paper. Often, making an intellectual connection 
between ideas or findings will lead you to inspiration.
Most PhD students are encouraged write draft material and notes as 
they proceed and may then accumulate so much work and so many 
ideas that they struggle to see how it might appear as a coherent, 
cohesive piece of writing. This is where your supervisor’s experience 
and wisdom will be valuable. He or she should have a wider view of 
the subject area and know what is likely to be judged significant, and 
what not. Supervisors will have seen through the process of thesis 
design several or many times and can advise on that basis. Hence, 
when you are ready for this stage, arrange a meeting to discuss the 
options. Think through a number of possible scenarios beforehand so 
you can discuss these. 
Research thesis structures
At an early stage, compare the structures adopted by other students in 
your research group or department. A consistent model may be used, 
which you can adopt, or there may be variety, in which case you can 
decide which model might suit your research the best. Note that there 
tends to be greater flexibility in the Arts domains about how the work 
should be explained in the thesis.
✔
Trialling the thesis design
When you have a clear idea of how your thesis should be arranged, it is 
wise to map out the framework as far as you can before you meet with 
your supervisor. This gives you a starting point for your discussion. You 
should take this draft framework further than a listing of the common 
elements – introduction, literature review, methods and materials, 
results, discussion and conclusion. You will need to include specific 
sub-headings under each of these elements and this means thinking 
through the detail of what you intend to write and where. Only by doing 
this will you be able to recognise that some pieces of information or 
work need to precede others; some may need to be analysed and 
explained in greater or less detail; and some chapters may potentially 
be overloaded whilst others may be ‘light’ on content.
✔
28  Elements of a thesis 
335
If your research has gone (is going) well, then you and your supervisor 
may be thinking already about how it might be published (Ch 32). 
In some disciplines, an entire thesis might be published and some 
of these have even become academic best-sellers. It is more likely, 
however, that specific areas of study (for example: work on a particular 
organism or chemical; analysis of a particular historical phenomenon, 
test of a specific hypothesis) will form ‘potentially publishable units’. 
Imagining how this collection of units might look is one way of 
visualising a possible thesis structure, perhaps using the ‘repeated 
chapter’ model discussed below.
When should I stop researching and start writing?
There is no all-encompassing answer to this. There are, however, a 
number of ways of answering that question, any of which may be 
relevant:
■
■When you know more or less what the theme of the thesis will be 
(you can then start writing drafts with a purpose).
■
■When you have enough data of publishable standard for more than 
one publication (this means your work will have reached the required 
standard).
■
■When you are running out of time (you will need about four to six 
months to write up, longer if writing is difficult for you).
■
■You should start writing draft material from day one (that is, do not 
partition the research and writing processes).
?
Structural options
The structural norms for PhD theses differ among disciplines and while 
some elements will be dictated by university rules, there is usually 
an element of flexibility, allowing you to choose a structure that fits 
with your research process and outcomes. Generally speaking, the 
discipline ‘standard’ will differ across Arts and Sciences. Table 28.1 
shows possible listings that show essential elements for both although 
all may not apply in all cases.
336 
Writing up your research
Table 28.1  Sections found in representative Arts and Sciences theses
Arts
Sciences
• Title 
• Preliminary material
• Abstract or Summary
• Introduction
• Literature review
• Methodology
• [Investigation]
• Discussion 
• Conclusions
• References
• Glossary
• Appendices
• Title 
• Preliminary material
• Abstract or Summary
• Introduction 
• Methods 
• Results 
• Discussion 
• Conclusions
• References
• Appendices
From Table 28.1, it can be seen that sections/chapters may carry 
different names: for example, ‘Materials and Methods’ is common 
in the sciences; ‘Analysis’ may be preferred to ‘Results’. Sometimes 
sections may be combined (the literature review being part of the 
introduction or the conclusions appearing as a final part of the 
Discussion, for example). Whatever the sections or chapters are called, 
the elements described in Table 28.1 can be seen as generic content of 
any thesis although some might straddle more than one section. 
For a thesis composed of work in different areas or using divergent 
approaches, the following model is an option: 
●
●Preliminary material
●
●Abstract or Summary
●
●General Introduction 
●
●General Methods (or General Materials and Methods)
Then, the elements in brackets, repeated as often as necessary:
●
●Chapter x
–– Introduction
–– Method (or Materials and Methods)
–– Results 
–– Discussion
●
●General Discussion
●
●Conclusions 
●
●References
28  Elements of a thesis 
337
How long should a thesis chapter be? 
Many academics would say that a thesis chapter should be equivalent 
in length to a research paper (and in some countries the postgraduate 
thesis consists solely of published work). In planning your thesis 
structure, it might therefore be helpful to think about ‘virtual’ papers 
you might aim to publish.
?
This model allows very specific approaches and their methods to be 
outlined closer to the relevant results and discussion. Again, some 
elements may carry different names or be combined. Note the use of 
a General Introduction and General Discussion before and after the 
chapters. These introduce and discuss the thesis as a whole, whereas 
the Chapter Introductions and discussions deal primarily with the 
theme of each specific chapter. In some cases there will only be one 
Materials and Methods section before the first results chapter (i.e. 
where these are essentially common to all parts of the thesis).
One advantage of using this type of design is that any figures and 
tables can be made independent among chapters, by adopting a 
numbering system relative to each chapter (e.g. Figure 3.4 is the fourth 
figure in Chapter 3). This means that you can add figures and tables 
to a chapter without disrupting the numbering system for the whole 
thesis. It also means you can write the chapters in any order, avoiding 
a tedious renumbering exercise.
In general, the institution will dictate the content, and sometimes 
presentation of the preliminary material (see below), but you will have 
some freedom to decide options for presenting your methods, results 
and discussion. The style of citation and the reference section usually 
need to follow discipline norms or department/university regulations 
(Ch 20).
Some disciplines, especially those that are relatively new, such as 
Computing, Art, Design and professional subjects such as Teaching 
and Nursing, have adopted different models of thesis structure that 
fit with the prevailing methods of research. In these cases, always 
follow your supervisor’s guidance in the first place, and try to source 
other theses in your area to see how they are constructed (these 
can be consulted within the library). However, the ultimate decision 
about structure of the thesis remains yours – providing it follows the 
necessary ‘standards’. Adopting a more novel approach as long as it 
338 
Writing up your research
is within the regulations may be a real factor in asserting your doctoral 
qualities. Therefore, you should be prepared to construct a design with 
which you are happy and be able to defend your decision in the viva.
The following sections discuss content and approaches for each of 
the elements outlined above. In each case, this is necessarily a general 
outline as disciplines and writers may have different expectations and 
wishes respectively. Before committing words to paper or getting too far 
down a particular avenue, always discuss your plan with your supervisor 
and/or progress monitoring committee and respond to any feedback 
received.
The thesis title
The first version of the title of your thesis is usually created at an early 
stage in the research process, perhaps when writing your research 
proposal (Ch 4). However, as your work proceeds you may find that 
this draft title no longer reflects the content of your thesis. The general 
principle is that the title should be a concise yet informative description 
of what the study or research was about. It might help to think about 
key words first, before framing the title, that is, those that you would 
expect another researcher to input into a database search program 
when trying to find out about work like your own. The convention is not 
to write ‘An investigation of. . .’ or ‘Studies on. . .’, as this is assumed. 
In the Sciences, thesis titles would normally encompass wider topics 
than those of research papers and might be more analogous to those 
of research reviews. In the Arts, the possibilities are wider ranging, but 
you still may find that the original title of your thesis is honed to a much 
simpler wording by the end of the writing process.
The title page usually includes the title, the volume number (if more than 
one), the author’s full name and qualifications, the name of the degree 
for which the thesis is submitted, the department (school or centre) and 
university, the date of submission (usually just month and year).
Check the thesis rules at an early stage 
Access your university’s PhD regulations at an early stage and print 
and file the section on structure and presentation. You may wish to 
create folders and files for mandatory sections so that you can draft 
these as you go along. For example, a note of people who help you 
could be added to a draft of the acknowledgement section (Ch 30).
✔
28  Elements of a thesis 
339
Preliminary material
There are many technical parts of a thesis that need to be included 
before the text proper, depending on institutional rules, theses may 
include the following components, sometimes with different titles and 
possibly in a different order, according to local regulations.
●
●Library declaration and deposit agreement. This indicates your 
permission to allow the library to release you work for other 
academics to read.
●
●The table of contents. This is a sequential list of the sections or 
chapters of the thesis, with page numbers. Clearly, this can only 
be completed properly after the thesis is written, although a ‘shell’ 
document can be constructed ahead of this without the final page 
information. If there is more than one volume the full contents table 
should be given in volume one, with relevant part contents for 
subsequent volumes.
●
●List of figures and tables. This is exactly what the title implies, with 
numbering and page numbers. The aim is to allow an examiner or 
reader find a specific piece of information quickly.
●
●Acknowledgements. This is a list of all those who have helped and 
supported you and to whom you wish to pay tribute. It may include 
thanks to a funding body.
●
●Declaration. This is effectively a statement that the thesis is all 
your own work, except where indicated. These normally follow 
institutional formats. Figure 28.1 provides an example.
‘Following the acknowledgements, if any, there shall be: a signed declaration, 
that the candidate is the author of the thesis; that, unless otherwise stated, all 
references cited have been consulted by the candidate; that the work of which 
the thesis is a record has been done by the candidate, and that it has not been 
previously accepted for a higher degree: provided that if the thesis is based 
upon joint research, the nature and extent of the candidate's individual 
contribution shall be defined’
Figure 28.1  An example of a typical regulation for the thesis declaration. 
Taken from The University of Dundee Code of Practice for Supervised 
Postgraduate Research (2006). Available at: http://www.somis.dundee.ac.uk/
calendar/senate/hdtheses.htm [Accessed 29 August 2012].
340 
Writing up your research
●
●An indication of the status of any related work. This might include 
that from a linked prior thesis (for example for a master’s degree) or 
published work, which would normally need to be clearly identified.
●
●Abbreviations. This is a comprehensive list of the shortened forms 
used in the thesis. Normal practice is to introduce the abbreviation at 
the first point of use, but if a reader sees a later use but has forgotten 
the meaning, it can be found in this section. The abbreviations with 
expanded versions are listed in strict alphabetical order.
The main generic thesis elements
The material under the following sub-headings details the content and 
organisation of the main components of a thesis. They are necessarily 
generalisations. To accommodate the wider differences in practice, 
they have been divided into parts for ‘sciences’ and ‘non-sciences’ 
where relevant, but there may be overlap in some subjects.
Abstract (or Summary)
This is an outline of the thesis often about 300 words in length, but this 
may vary according to discipline or regulations. This is usually quite 
difficult to write because of the length restriction. It should cover: the 
aims of the investigation or research, the methods, the findings and the 
conclusion. The language should be general rather than technical, if 
possible. The Abstract should allow a reader to comprehend the original 
contribution(s) to knowledge and understanding made in the thesis.
Trialling the abstract
Many times over the period of your PhD studies you will be asked 
what your dissertation is about. The answer could be one word – for 
example, ‘feet’ – or it could be a lengthy exposé on the damage 
caused to feet by the use of ill-fitting shoes. Neither explanation is 
going to be appropriate for your abstract. However, once your research 
is under way you could try writing down an explanation of your study 
in no more than, say, 55 words. This should include information about 
topic, purpose, method, findings and (anticipated) conclusion. This is 
an excellent way of arriving at a clear understanding of where you are 
going and why. This draft may also help you find the clarity needed for 
a good (expanded) abstract when you write the final version.
✔
28  Elements of a thesis 
341
Introduction
The aim of the introduction should be to provide a rationale for your 
work. Thus, it needs to include background information leading to 
a description of the issue under investigation and the reason for the 
study. For a thesis it would normally incorporate a review of past work 
(the literature) in the area, leading to the aims of your own work.
Possible topics to be addressed in an introduction might include:
●
●general and current importance of the (wide) research area;
●
●a brief description of the structure of the thesis;
●
●a review of the wider subject area and the context of your particular 
field, including its potential importance;
●
●a review of recent findings in your (narrow) field;
●
●a description of the hypothesis or hypotheses you intend to test 
(sciences);
●
●identification of the ‘gap’ in knowledge or understanding that 
suggests the need for investigation that will be addressed by this 
study and described in the thesis;
●
●comments on novel aspects of experimental design, materials, or 
methods; in some cases it may outline the content of the work.
Literature Review
In the Sciences, reviewing and appraising the literature may be a 
component feature of the Introduction. However, in some disciplines 
including those in the Arts, reviewing the literature might require an 
independent chapter. In some instances, the review of literature might 
fit more appropriately within separate chapters with only a general 
mention of seminal work in the literature provided in the introduction 
chapter of the thesis.
When should a thesis consist of more than one 
volume?
The basic answer is when it is longer than the extent allowed by the 
bindery – about 300 pages or so. A second volume might also be a 
useful option when large amounts of raw data or photos need to be 
included. Note that in some institutions, permission must be sought for 
submission of a thesis running into more than one volume. In such cases, 
the author has to provide justification for this extended submission.
?
342 
Writing up your research
Methods (or Materials and Methods) (or Methodology)
Sciences
In these disciplines, your aim is to describe what you did in sufficient 
detail to allow a competent lab worker in your field to carry out 
exactly the same research as you did. This is a key part of any 
scientific communication, because the essence of all science lies in its 
repeatability (Chs 3 and 23). There is no need to go into unnecessary 
detail. For example, a competent technician would be able to work 
out how much of a specified chemical to use to make a solution of 
defined concentration, and to use a stirrer bar to dissolve the solution. 
However, the precise supplier, purity and concentration of the chemical 
might be crucial to the results, and should, therefore, be specified. 
Structure the Materials and Methods into sections in the order in 
which they are presented in the thesis (which may not be the order 
in which they were done). For example, you might start with how the 
experimental material was obtained. Crucial at this point is an adequate 
description of its origins and nature (in life sciences, for example, this 
would include the binomial Latin name plus authority of any organisms 
studied). You might then move on to describe how each experiment 
was carried out. Finally, you might have a section on data analysis (and 
presentation).
This section should be written in past tense, for example, ‘The drying 
board was positioned at an angle of 45°’; ‘The leaves were dried out 
overnight’. 
Finalising your introduction
The introduction is the first detailed explanation of the context and 
purpose of your study. It sets the scene and whets the appetite of the 
reader; it helps your examiner to understand the context and possibly 
how you intend to ‘unpack’ the problem. Furthermore, it will be the 
section that the examiner may read as a reminder of the content prior 
to your viva. That said, while your introduction is of considerable 
significance, it can only reflect the content of the full work. This means 
that you should not ‘worry away’ at achieving a perfect introduction 
until you have completed all the other chapters. Until you have 
finished the conclusion, you should see your introduction as ‘work in 
progress’. Only when everything else is written, should you re-read your 
introduction and remodel it so that it does, indeed, reflect the content 
of the full work.
✔
28  Elements of a thesis 
343
Data should be simplified and presented clearly (see Ch 21). Include 
information about statistical hypothesis tests (for example values of P, 
the probability of getting your result by chance). 
Do not:
●
●separate materials from methods (unless otherwise instructed): as 
you describe what you did, incorporate information about what you 
did it with;
●
●include any results: there are rare occasions when (say) a calibration 
might be included, but in general, experiments which validate your 
methods should come in the first section of the results.
Non-sciences
A methods or methodology section in arts-related subjects can relate to 
both the theoretical approaches that underpin the research activity and the 
way in which the research was conducted. The former part may require an 
in-depth scrutiny of theoretical, often qualitative, approaches to research 
(Ch 22) and explanation of why one particular approach is best suited to 
your study over other options. It follows, therefore, that the description of 
the conduct of the research will derive from these theoretical parameters. 
Increasingly, diverse approaches are being used in research in the Arts and 
Social Sciences which may mean that this chapter is a lengthy one.
Results (or Findings)
Sciences
The Results section should consist of a clear sequential description of 
your findings. The exact sequence need not be the order in which you 
did the thinking or carried out the experiments, but it should be logical. 
You need to ‘lead the reader’ through the figures, pointing out the main 
points. Refer to them in sequence, numbered strictly in the order of first 
mention. For example, ‘Figure 1 shows that treatment x had a greater 
effect on z than treatment y’.
Construct the figures and tables before you start 
writing the results
As a result of the dynamic nature of results analysis, figure and table 
numbers and numbering may change frequently because you are 
creating new representations or even feeding in new results as you 
complete a chapter. When this process is complete, lay them out in the 
order you wish to describe them, and this will dictate their numbering.
✔
344 
Writing up your research
Do not:
●
●repeat data in more than one form, unless this is crucial to your 
conclusions;
●
●give all the replicate data;
●
●include discursive material: put this in the Discussion section. If you 
find it difficult not to discuss the results, consider using the Results 
and Discussion option (see below).
Always do the statistical tests before you start writing up the results. 
These analyses could materially alter your perspective on the data and 
affect the subsequent discussion dramatically.
Non-sciences
In these disciplines, a section labelled ‘Results’ or ‘Findings’ may 
not exist, although this does not mean that there are no findings in 
the thesis. Much will depend on the discipline, the thesis topic and 
also, perhaps, on the regulations, but the findings may suitably be 
introduced in the main body of the thesis where analysis of the issues 
and the related literature may be divided into individual chapters. 
Gradually, as the dimensions of the research problem are examined 
and the data are introduced to amplify understanding, the ‘finding’ 
element will be revealed. For those conducting research in the Arts and 
Social Sciences, this allows a valuable flexibility to compartmentalise 
analyses and their corresponding findings. 
Do I need to write my thesis in the sequence that  
the chapters will appear?
Writing is a dynamic process and you can write the sections whenever 
you feel that you can. This means that you can jump around in the 
sequence (is it really ‘order’?). This can be helpful because there will 
be moments when you just do not feel like writing about a particular 
aspect of the study or you may find that you don’t feel like writing at 
all. At such times, choose an area where you felt that you can write 
fluently and accurately with a good chance of being productive. For 
scientists, one such area might be the Methods and Materials section; 
this more descriptive writing may be easier to construct. Conversely, 
those in Arts subjects may find that their Methodology section presents 
a challenge in the writing process that is best left to a more auspicious 
moment. Instead, starting at the literature review might induce more 
fluent writing.
?
28  Elements of a thesis 
345
Discussion
Sciences
Here, you should state the significance of your results. This is an 
important section, because it shows that you understand what you 
have done. The Discussion should be critical, that is, mentioning both 
good and bad points about your study. Be prepared to reject your 
original hypothesis, but state what others you might now adopt in its 
place. Be aware that you cannot ‘prove’ anything in science (Ch 3) and 
that there will always be an alternative (low probability) explanation, 
which should be discussed. You may also wish to:
●
●state the main conclusions;
●
●compare your results with other published data;
●
●indicate what future studies might be undertaken;
●
●mention the significance of the work in a wider context.
Do not: 
●
●extend the Discussion too much; it can easily degenerate into waffle; 
●
●simply repeat the Results section; you should be analysing your 
results rather than describing them.
Non-sciences
As with the above explanation of the positioning of results/findings in 
these disciplines, it can follow that the ‘discussion’ is subsumed in 
each of the sections/chapters that comprise the main body of the text. 
However, there may also be a separate chapter that brings together 
these discussion points and relates them to the conclusions reached 
regarding the study.
Conclusions
This is not always a separate section and may be combined with the 
discussion (see above). An option to consider is to state your main 
conclusions in a numbered list or logical sequence of paragraphs. 
Conclusions can provide the stimulus for discussion of your thesis in 
the viva and so you should have some clear notion of further directions 
that could be followed arising from your study or provide indicators 
of recommendations that you might make for further action and 
change (see also Ch 31). These should appear within the Discussion/
Conclusion chapter of the thesis. 
346 
Writing up your research
Cohesion in your thesis – making the links
The nature of the writing process may mean that chapters have 
been written at different stages in the study period; they may have 
been written when you were unsure of what would precede or follow 
them. For such reasons you may find that some to the introductory 
or closing paragraphs in your chapters seem awkward and even 
inelegant in the way that they are written. To smooth out this 
roughness, you should review your entire thesis ensuring that there 
are clear ‘backward’ and ‘forward’ links between the chapters as they 
appear in the final sequence. You can enhance the cohesion of your 
work by ensuring that you relate your activities, findings, conclusions 
and recommendations to the literature that you introduced earlier 
in the work. New literature should not be introduced in the final 
sections; if new material has been published then you should 
revisit the earlier literature review content of the work and update it 
appropriately.
✔
References (Bibliography) (Literature cited) (Works cited)
This section (all the names effectively mean the same thing but 
depend on the referencing style you follow) gives the details for any 
articles cited in the text. There will be a precise format for doing this, 
depending on the rules adopted by your department or discipline. 
Even if you select a referencing style yourself, you will need to adopt it 
accurately and consistently. See Chapter 20 and McMillan and Weyers 
(2013) for further discussion. 
Glossary
This lists all specialist terms or terms that have been used in a way that 
is unique to the thesis, and so may require definition. The inclusion of 
such a listing allows the non-expert to understand the content of the 
thesis without recourse to specialist dictionaries. 
Appendices (Supplementary material)
An Appendix (plural: appendices) is a section at the end of piece of 
academic writing – for example, a thesis. It consists of information 
which is closely related to the content of the main body of the 
work. Nevertheless, it is usually material which, while adding further 
understanding, might clog up the main part of the work with distracting 
28  Elements of a thesis 
347
detail which would inhibit the flow of the key issues in the discussion. 
Appendices are usually listed as Appendix A, B, C etc. or as Appendix 
1, 2, 3 etc. The pages are usually numbered with lower case Roman 
numerals, that is, (i), (ii), (iii) and so on. 
Supplementary material may be required in some disciplines, for 
example where the thesis involves discussion of an artefact. This 
could be shown via material on a CD/DVD – consult your university 
regulations or postgraduate office.
When should I stop writing?
Obviously, you need to complete a thesis plan, having all relevant sections 
and chapters complete. You may then wish to refine your text, perhaps via 
successive editing ‘sweeps’ (as discussed in Chapter 29). You will then 
need to receive feedback on this material from your supervisor, discuss 
this and incorporate any agreed changes. If you are a perfectionist, 
you may still wish to tinker with the text. Unless you are well ahead of 
the submission date, this is probably not a good idea. So long as your 
supervisor is happy with the product, start the submission process.
?
Action points
28.1  Ensure you file your progress reports, notes and early 
drafts in a well-organised way. These will be very useful sources 
when you come to write the final version of your thesis, and you 
should be able to find relevant material easily. Files should carry 
meaningful names and a version number or date should be dated.
28.2  Ensure your references are well organised from an early 
stage. This is a very tedious part of writing up if you do not tackle 
it as you go along. Programs such as Endnote may be helpful 
in organising and presenting this information in the appropriate 
manner (Ch 20).
28.3  Keep back-up files (including print-outs) at all stages. 
There are heartbreaking tales of students who lose all their files 
near to the end of a write-up. Printing out hard copy as you 
complete chapters is another way of ensuring that you have a 
working text should electronic disaster strike. This can always be 
scanned if required.
348 
Writing up your research
How to take control of 
the writing process
Becoming an autonomous writer
29
Thesis writing is a developmental process. At the start, there will be 
much to learn from your supervisor and other sources, as you come 
to terms with the art of academic writing and learn about discipline 
standards and conventions. Finding a personal yet truly scholarly 
style will take time and effort. Eventually, however, you will emerge 
from this process as an independent writer capable of high-quality 
output.
Key topics
➔
➔Planning towards autonomy
➔
➔Learning from feedback
➔
➔Improving your self-editing skills
➔
➔Developing a personal writing style
➔
➔Striving for the goal of writing autonomy
Unless you move on to author a (largish) book, you will probably never 
write as lengthy a document as your PhD thesis. It will need to have 
a consistent style and there needs to be an accuracy and attention 
to detail that will be very demanding. Most graduating PhD students 
readily agree that the experience of writing up not only developed their 
writing skills, it transformed them to new levels.
The ultimate goal associated with this transformation is ‘writing 
autonomy’. That is, knowing what to write, how to structure it, and how 
to present it by yourself, without substantive guidance. This requires 
meticulous planning, experience in writing, which writing your thesis 
will certainly give you, and advanced self-editing skills. The path to 
autonomy is rarely easy. You will make mistakes in the early stages, 
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
349
and will carry on doing so – written language is capable of so many 
different forms of expression that this is inevitable.
At PhD level, key stages in this continuing process are: 
●
●planning your writing;
●
●learning from your supervisor’s feedback;
●
●learning how to self-edit your work to the highest of standards;
●
●developing a personal writing style.
Planning towards autonomy
There are two aspects to planning that are relevant; the first is in 
relation to the structure of the writing and the second is the scheduling 
of your writing. 
At the outset of your PhD study, you will have had to plan your 
proposal, your research of the literature and make a myriad of 
decisions each of which may not in itself have been of major 
significance. Cumulatively, these decisions will have contributed 
to your increasing confidence in your mastery of your topic. As 
you contemplate the task of writing up your thesis, you will need 
to make further autonomous decisions, initially about planning the 
whole thesis, and then about planning the individual components 
and chapters related to them (Ch 28). This planning is the key 
to achieving synergy between your research and writing. It is 
essentially a solo activity where minor and major decisions are yours 
alone. 
Without the necessary planning, your writing will be without 
structure and will almost certainly fail to demonstrate real 
independence of thought. The success of your planning of your 
writing will become apparent when you receive your supervisor’s 
feedback.
Setting up a timetable for your work will be vital to completing your 
thesis on time (Ch 6). This can only be done once you have decided 
on the structure, so that aspect needs to be tackled at an early stage. 
The structure may change as you write, and that is an acceptable 
and natural part of the writing process. However, without some 
organisational intention at the start, your writing effort is likely to drift 
and fail to make both self-imposed and external deadlines.
350 
Writing up your research
The process of planning your effort can be divided into three stages: 
1	 Make a realistic estimate of the time available for writing. This 
should take into account your continuing research effort where 
relevant, work and teaching commitments, family and social time 
and ‘maintenance’ tasks. Sum this over the days, weeks and months 
until your submission deadline.
2	 Using your draft thesis plan, estimate the proportion of time you feel 
you should devote to each part. Some parts may be already near-
final from past work, such as methods or reference lists. Others 
you will know to be potentially time-consuming or difficult. Allow 
sufficient time for dealing with feedback, and the presentational 
aspects discussed in Chapter 30, including printing, copying and 
binding. Allow also some time for slippage in the timetable.
3	 Allocate the total time to these elements of the work. This will create 
a set of mini-deadlines for the completion of each part.
The hard part, of course, is keeping to your timetable – but having one 
will let you know how well you are progressing and whether you need 
to step up your work rate or deserve a break.
Working back from your submission date
Sometimes it is easy to be lulled into a false sense of security 
by thinking that there is plenty of time until the deadline date for 
any big task. In the case of the submission date for your thesis, a 
reality check may be needed and this can be achieved by working 
backwards from that date, factoring in all remaining tasks, such as the 
time needed to:
■
■Finalise your remaining research – how long will it take to obtain the 
information you still require and to analyse it?
■
■Personally edit and proof-read your final version – do you really 
know how long it will take to implement changes?
■
■Obtain final feedback from your supervisor – do you know what their 
work commitments are?
■
■Print and bind the work – do you know how long the printer/binder 
will take to create a set of copies for the viva?
The list could go on and on, but these examples are sufficient to show 
that there are many steps in the process leading up to final submission 
and it would be wise to outline list all that apply in your case.
✔
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
351
Different supervisors use different terms to express similar meanings, 
and because they work quickly, their handwritten comments may 
sometimes be untidy and may be difficult to interpret. It won’t take 
long to learn how to decipher the handwriting and coding quirks of 
your supervisor, but you will have to work at it. For example, they may 
use the standard proof-reading symbols and if unfamiliar with these 
you may need to find out about them. Table 29.1 provides a list of the 
more common, but others are available from sources like Ritter (2005). 
If a particular comment or mark does not make sense to you or you 
cannot read it, then approach your supervisor for clarification, but be 
sure to make a note of the explanation as asking twice will not go 
down well.
Learning from feedback
In progressing from the planning to the production phase of writing, 
you will be moving to a new level in your relationship with your 
supervisor as you handle his or her feedback and explain some of 
your decision-making. Feedback from your supervisor or lecturer 
may be oral or written: some feedback may be informal, for example, 
a comment given as you work in the lab, or an observation on your 
contribution in a seminar. Take every comment seriously, even if stated 
with humour. Reflect on the potential reasons for positive and negative 
pointers, and try to learn from them all.
Written feedback may be provided on your thesis drafts and 
other work, such as progress reports. This may take the form of 
handwritten comments over your text. Alternatively, your supervisor 
may use a tool like the ‘Track Changes’ facility in Microsoft Word. 
This allows amendments to your work. In addition, he or she may use 
the ‘Comments’ facility in Word, to add explanations or ideas.
How often will my supervisor read my draft versions?
This is a thorny issue. Supervisors are busy people; they may be 
supervising several students. Some supervisors will only survey a 
single draft and expect you to work from there by yourself; others will 
be prepared to look at a number of versions. Most supervisors will 
become irritated if you submit sloppy work or fail to take on board past 
comments and repeat mistakes.
?
352 
Writing up your research
It is important to put yourself in the correct frame of mind to learn from 
the views of your supervisor. You may initially feel that feedback is 
unfair or harsh or that it misunderstands the approach you were trying 
to take to the topic. A natural reaction might be to dismiss many of 
the comments. However, you should recognise that your supervisor 
probably has a much deeper understanding of the topic than you and, 
of course, greater experience in the conventions of this level of writing, 
and concede that if you want to do well, then you need to gain a better 
Table 29.1  Common proof-reading symbols. Supervisors use a variety of 
symbols to indicate errors, corrections or suggestions. These can apply to 
punctuation, spelling, presentation or grammar. The symbols provide a kind 
of ‘shorthand’ that acts as a code to help you see how you might be able to 
amend your text so that it reads correctly and fluently. In this table some of the 
more commonly used correction marks are shown alongside their meanings. 
The example text shows how these symbols may be used either in the text or 
the margin to indicate where a change is recommended.
quality of your writing
the
supervisors
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
353
understanding of what makes a good dissertation or project from the 
academic’s point of view.
Improving your self-editing skills
Writing is a process. It begins with a plan and it finishes with reviewing, 
editing and proof-reading. This means that you should review your text 
critically before submitting it to your supervisor for comment. Looking 
analytically at your own writing is essential if you want to produce work 
of the highest quality. These editing skills will allow you to improve the 
sense, grammar and syntax of your written assignments.
At the start of thesis writing, you will probably need to rely on your 
supervisor’s comments to gain an appreciation of the writing style 
required in your discipline, but sooner or later you will have to develop 
your own abilities in this area.
The effort you invest in this final stage will contribute to the quality of 
your work. Ideally, you should leave a gap of time between completing 
the writing and beginning the reviewing process, as this allows you 
to ‘distance’ yourself from the work and helps you look at it as a new 
reader would.
Allow plenty of time for self-editing
When planning your writing schedule, ensure that you have allowed 
adequate time for reviewing and proof-reading. It requires powers of 
concentration that cannot be rushed and consequently takes a long 
time. You don’t want to spoil all your hard work by skimping on this 
final stage.
✔
At this stage you are performing the role of editor. This means that 
you are looking critically at your text for content, relevance and 
sense, as well as for flaws in layout, grammar, punctuation and 
spelling. 
You should also check for consistency in all aspects, for example, in 
the use of terminology, in spelling, and in presentational features such 
as font and point size, layout of paragraphs, and labelling of tables and 
diagrams.
354 
Writing up your research
Clearly, there are a lot of aspects to cover, and some degree of overlap 
in different parts of the process. In the reviewing process, you should 
consider several aspects:
●
●Content – is the substance of your text correct?
●
●Relevance – is what you have written appropriate?
●
●Clarity – are your thoughts clearly expressed?
●
●Style – have you used expressions appropriate for academic 
writing?
●
●Coherence – does everything fit together to create a meaningful 
whole?
●
●Grammatical correctness – is the language and syntax right?
●
●Spelling and punctuation – are these correct?
●
●Presentation – is the text formatted correctly? 
You can review some of the key aspects that you should bear in mind 
in this phase of reviewing by looking at Tables 27.5 and 30.1.
Definitions
Reviewing – appraising critically; that is, examining a task or project 
to ensure that it meets the requirements and objectives of the task and 
that the overall sense is conveyed well.
Editing – revising and correcting later drafts of an essay, to arrive at 
a final version. Usually, this involves the smaller rather than the larger 
details, such as details of punctuation, spelling, grammar and layout.
Proof-reading – checking a printed copy for errors of any sort.
i
Ideally, you might consider each of these in a different editing ‘sweep’ 
through your draft text. Experienced editors can achieve all of this 
in one read, but this is probably not possible for most research 
authors. Instead, we recommend a compromise review process 
which incorporates a minimum of three sweeps, sequentially looking 
at different aspects. Table 29.2 illustrates the points that might be 
covered in each sweep, with an easy-to-use checklist for each review.
Although the editing process may seem tedious and more complex 
than it might have appeared at first, a text revised in this way will be 
far more likely to receive a favourable reading than one that is not 
reviewed, edited and proofed.
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
355
Table 29.2  Editing strategies. Initially, it might help you to focus on each 
of these three broad aspects in a separate ‘sweep’ of your draft text. As you 
become more experienced, you will become adept at doing this, and the 
reviewing/editing/proof-reading process can be done in a single combined 
sweep. 
Sweep 1: Content and relevance; clarity, style and coherence
Tips for each sweep
Checklist of items to review
• Work on a hard copy using editing 
symbols to correct errors
• Revisit your aim in writing the text in 
question; check your interpretation 
if what you have written against the 
original ‘specification’
• Read objectively and assess whether 
the text makes sense 
• Look for inconsistencies in argument
• Confirm that all your facts are correct
• Insert additional or overlooked comment 
or evidence that strengthens the whole
• Remove anything that is not relevant 
or alter the text so that it is clear and 
unambiguous
• Check whether your text is too wordy 
Reducing text by 10–25 per cent can 
improve quality considerably
• Honestly and critically assess your 
material to ensure that you have 
attributed ideas to their sources, that 
is, check that you have not committed 
plagiarism (Ch 20)
• Remodel any expressions that are too 
informal for the academic context
• Eliminate gendered or discriminatory 
language 
❏
❏Your original intent has been 
observed
❏
❏The structure is appropriate
❏
❏The text shows objectivity
❏
❏The examples are relevant
❏
❏All sources are correctly cited
❏
❏The facts presented are accurate
❏
❏The rationale of your approach 
to the topic will be clear to the 
reader
❏
❏What you wrote is what you 
meant to write
❏
❏The text is fluent, with 
appropriate use of signpost 
words
❏
❏Any informal language has been 
removed
❏
❏The style is academic and 
appropriate for the task
❏
❏The content and style of each 
section is consistent
❏
❏The tense used in each section 
is suited to the time-frame of 
your text
❏
❏The length of the text sections 
are balanced appropriately
Sweep 2: Grammatical correctness
Tips for each sweep
Checklist of items to review
• Check titles and subtitles are 
appropriate to the style of the work and 
stand out by using bold or underlining 
(not both)
• Consider whether the different parts link 
together well – if not, introduce signpost 
words to guide the reader through the 
text
❏
❏All sentences are complete
❏
❏All sentences make sense
❏
❏Paragraphs have been correctly 
used
❏
❏Suggestions made by grammar 
checker have been accepted/
rejected
Continued overleaf
356 
Writing up your research
• Check for fluency in sentence and 
paragraph structure – remodel as 
required
• Check sentence length – remodel to 
shorter or longer sentences; sometimes 
shorter sentences are more effective 
than longer ones
• Ensure that you have been consistent 
in spelling conventions, for example 
following British English rather than 
American English spelling
• Use the spellchecker but be prepared to 
double-check in a standard dictionary 
if you are in doubt or cannot find a 
spelling within the spellchecker facility
• Check for cumbersome constructions 
– divide or restructure sentence(s); 
consider whether active or passive 
is more suitable; consider using 
vocabulary that might convey your point 
more eloquently
• Check for use of ‘absolute’ terms to 
ensure that you maintain objectivity
❏
❏The text has been checked 
against your own checklist of 
recurrent grammatical errors 
❏
❏The text is consistent in adopting 
British or American English
❏
❏Any blatant ‘typos’ have been 
corrected by reading for meaning
❏
❏The text has been spell-checked 
and looked at for your ‘own’ 
most often misspelled words 
❏
❏A check has been made for 
spelling of subject-specific 
words and words from other 
languages
❏
❏Punctuation has been checked, 
if possible, by reading aloud
❏
❏Proper names are correctly 
capitalised 
❏
❏Overlong sentences have been 
divided
Sweep 3: Presentation
Tips for each sweep
Checklist of items to review
• Check that you have made good use of 
white space, that is, not crammed the 
text into too tight a space
• Check that you have followed standard 
typing conventions; follow any 
‘house style’ rules stipulated by your 
department
• Check that all your citations and 
references consistently follow a 
recognised method (Ch 20), and that all 
citations in the text are matched by an 
entry in the reference list and vice versa
• Ensure all pages are numbered
• Ensure all necessary preliminary material 
has been completed
• Check that labelling of diagrams, charts 
and other visual material is in sequence 
and consistently presented
• Ensure that supporting material is added 
in sequence as appendices, footnotes, 
endnotes or as a glossary as applicable
❏
❏The text length is as might be 
expected for the standard of this 
level of work
❏
❏Overall neatness checked
❏
❏The presentational aspects are 
as required by your department 
(font, margins, page numbering, 
etc.)
❏
❏The bibliography/reference list is 
correctly formatted according to 
the recommended style
❏
❏Page numbers have been 
included (in position stipulated, 
if given)
❏
❏The figures and tables are in 
appropriate format and are 
appropriately titled
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
357
When checking your work it is usually a good idea to work from a 
hard copy. Reading through your work laid out on paper will help 
you identify errors and inconsistencies more readily than might be 
possible on a computer screen. A paper version is also easier to 
annotate (although this can also be done using the ‘Track Changes’ 
or ‘Comments’ facility on your word-processor). A printout also allows 
you to see the whole work in overview, and focus on the way the text 
‘flows’. If necessary, spread it out on the desk in front of you to gain an 
idea of the balance between sections.
Map your work to obtain an overview
‘Label’ each paragraph with a topic heading and list these in a linear 
way on a separate paper. This will provide you with a ‘snapshot’ of your 
text and will allow you to appraise the order, check against the original 
plan, and adjust the position of parts as you feel necessary.
✔
Technical aids for reviewing
The word processor has made the reviewing and editing task much 
easier. Here are some tips for using this software effectively:
■
■Use the word-count facility to check on length.
■
■Use the ‘View’ facility to check page breaks and general layout 
before you print out.
■
■Don’t rely 100 per cent on the spell- and grammar checker.
■
■Sometimes the grammar checker will announce that you have used 
the passive voice. This is often a standard academic usage and, 
therefore, is not an error (Ch 27).
■
■Sometimes supervisors add comments to students’ work using 
‘Track Changes’ or ‘Insert > Comments’ in Microsoft Word software. 
Depending on the version you are using, feedback information can 
usually be accepted or rejected by right-clicking on the word or 
punctuation point that has been marked for alteration.
✔
Professional writers – novelists as well as academics – often report 
that their initial drafts are frequently much longer than the final version. 
If you follow their example of writing ‘large’ and then cutting down 
the text with intelligent editing, then your text will be crisper. Some of 
the things that can be easily removed are redundant words (‘add up’ 
= ‘add’) or lengthy expressions (‘a lot of’ = ‘many’) which will help to 
358 
Writing up your research
achieve that crispness of expression. At sentence level, you may find 
that you have written something like: 
These changes have caused shortages in almost all commodities in the 
market that are derived from milk. This means that milk products are in short 
supply.
Essentially, these two sentences mean the same and so you could 
eliminate one of them. Which one you decide to cut might depend on 
the context; equally, it might depend on your word count. Either way, 
the resulting, shorter, text will send a clearer message to your reader.
Table 29.3 shows how text that is wordy, lacking good sentence 
structure and which runs all ideas into a single paragraph can be made 
much more meaningful and easier to assimilate if the text us broken 
up into shorter sentences where use is made of appropriate discourse 
markers (Ch 27).
Developing a personal writing style
Most writers have a writing style or ‘voice’ of their own. For example, 
you might have a favourite set of vocabulary, use certain collocations 
Table 29.3  Comparative illustration of text transformation from first draft to 
edited text.
First draft text. Highlighted text 
indicates words, expressions or 
structures that were clumsy or 
confusing
Edited text. Underlined text indicates 
words or expressions that have been 
adjusted to produce a more concise 
and precise text. Note also the 
reduced word count.
Drawing on the findings presented in 
the last chapter, it was established that 
previous studies in this research field 
have tended to be limited in their scope 
with respect to these two aspects and 
this means that this is what it is felt has 
contributed to reducing the impact of 
their studies which allowed the current 
research work sufficient diversity in 
which it would be possible to draw 
wider ranging conclusions whilst 
also increasing the impact which this 
research may have in the construction 
industry.
[85 words]
The findings presented in the last 
chapter indicated that previous studies 
in this research field were limited 
in scope relating to the two latter 
aspects. This shortcoming contributed 
to reducing the impact of the studies. 
Consequently, the current research 
sought to provide sufficient diversity 
and to allow wider ranging conclusions 
with greater potential impact on the 
construction industry. 
[58 words]
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
359
(Ch 27) more frequently than others and favour longer complex 
sentences over shorter, simpler ones. This might be influenced by what 
you have read in the past, or a method of teaching writing in school. It 
is what would make your own writing recognisable to another person.
As stressed in Chapters 26 and 27, the writing style you may have 
carried over from school must progressively move towards standard 
academic style. This process may have started in your undergraduate 
days, but the results will need to approach perfection for thesis 
writing. This does not mean that you will or should lose all of your 
idiosyncrasies, more that you must observe all the conventions 
expected within your chosen forms of expression.
Aspects of style tend to come to the fore when expressing your own 
thoughts and ideas, rather than describing those of others, where 
standard constructions are adopted. As you gain experience, your own 
position/viewpoint will become more evident in the way you write. As 
you gain confidence, so your writing will become more fluent and even 
assertive.
Striving for the goal of writing autonomy
There will be times during the completion of your thesis where you will 
wonder whether you will ever master the writing techniques required. 
It is often very difficult to articulate complex thoughts and ideas, 
especially when these are new. Sometimes when you have used words 
poorly, it will be highly embarrassing when your supervisor points out 
an elementary error. However, take heart. Every PhD student who ever 
Don’t be too consistent in your writing style
As you develop your writing skills, you will need to learn how to ‘play’ 
with language. This involves experimenting with each choice of word, 
each phrase, the order of words, the construction of sentences and the 
sequence within paragraphs. The ability to manipulate writing in this 
way is important for a number of reasons:
■
■it allows you to exploit the flexibility of the English language to 
express your meaning as clearly and as accurately as possible;
■
■it demonstrates your ability to group ideas in a logical way;
■
■it ensures that you maintain the reader’s attention and interest.
✔
360 
Writing up your research
submitted a thesis has felt the same at times. Your aim should be to 
learn from your mistakes and to be proactive in learning more about 
language and methods of concise, clear expression.
The goal of writing autonomy is one to aim for, but perfection is not 
a prize that many achieve. Even noted writers will go through many 
drafts before finalising their text and even then would probably find 
something to change given another opportunity. What is realistic is to 
develop the skill of self-criticism and self-editing to such a level that 
you can see in your own writing that it needs to be altered to refine 
meaning. In the longer term, learning how to edit your work properly 
will help you to develop a skill of critical analysis that will stand you 
in good stead throughout your career. However, once you have a 
version that meets with your own and your supervisor’s approval, don’t 
be tempted to keep tinkering with it; a point has to come when you 
must accept that the manuscript is about as near-perfect as you can 
make it. 
It is in the nature of language that the same ideas can be expressed in 
many different ways. Some may be suitable for your purpose and some 
not. Having created a logical structure for your writing (Chs 26–28), 
your task is to think through these options for each and every 
paragraph and sentence that you write, and to choose appropriate 
sentence and word sequences.
Finally, always remember that your thesis is exactly that: your thesis. 
You must take total responsibility for everything in it, and be prepared 
to defend it under close questioning. That final stage of the PhD 
process is the point where you will realise true autonomy in your 
research. 
Action points
29.1  Decide what to do about feedback comments you 
frequently receive. For instance, does your supervisor always 
comment about your spelling or grammar; or suggest you should 
use more examples; or ask for more citations to be included? 
If so, look at relevant reference books to learn how to adjust 
appropriately, or seek assistance from the Academic Support 
Service in your institution for support in language and writing 
skills.
29  Becoming an autonomous writer 
361
29.2  Practise using the standard proof-reading marks. When 
editing your own work, learn how to use some of these symbols as 
this will help you speed up the proof-reading process.
29.3  Try condensing a piece of your text. This is an 
acknowledged way of improving your work. Look at your text 
for irrelevant points, wordy phrases, repetitions and excessive 
examples; if you can reduce its original length by 10–25 per cent, 
you will probably find that you have created a much tighter, easier-
to-read piece of writing.
362 
Writing up your research
How to submit your work in 
the appropriate manner
Thesis presentation
30
Your thesis must be presented according to the appropriate 
academic conventions and specific university rules. This chapter 
explains how to create a polished submission that follows the 
established standards of academic writing in your discipline.
Key topics
➔
➔Following institutional guidance for the presentation of theses
➔
➔Layout of text
➔
➔Incorporating figures and tables
➔
➔Formatting, printing and binding
The quality of your thesis will be determined by a combination of 
factors, but principally:
●
●activities that take place before you write, such as researching your 
sources, conducting experiments or analysing the literature;
●
●the way you express your ideas in writing. 
Your examiners (Ch 31) will be expected to verify that it has been 
submitted according to the local rules. Moreover, directly or indirectly, 
the presentation of your thesis will make a statement about the 
overall care you have taken in conducting your analysis and preparing 
the content, and might therefore influence your examiners. This 
chapter provides reminders of what may seem to be the ‘cosmetic’ 
details of layout and visual elements, but which, in fact, reflect the 
professionalism you should attach to all aspects of your work.
Good presentation involves accuracy, consistency and attention 
to detail. For this reason it is often associated with editing and 
proofreading (Ch 29).
30  Thesis presentation 
363
Why does good presentation matter?
■
■It forms an element of the assessment.
■
■It helps the marker or examiner understand what you have written.
■
■It shows you can adopt professional standards in your work.
■
■If you have taken care with meticulous presentation, then this 
suggests that the work it reports will have been done with equal 
attention to detail.
■
■It demonstrates you have acquired important skills that will transfer 
to other subjects and, later, employment.
?
Following institutional guidance for the 
presentation of theses
Acceptable thesis structures depend on discipline and subject (Ch 
28). You should research this carefully before you start to write up, by 
consulting the relevant postgraduate degree regulations. Institutions 
provide information about thesis submission and presentation – 
sometimes this is very prescriptive and relates to the appearance and 
layout, sometimes only minimal direction is provided.
You may have to search for the information on your university’s 
website, through the University Library, the Registry, the Media or 
Printing Services Department or the School or Faculty. If you have 
difficulty in locating these guidelines, then a good starting point would 
be your university’s Postgraduate Office. Specifications often vary 
within an institution, so an alternative is to check with your Faculty, 
School or Department Office.
Some institutions use the British Standard BS4821:1990 as the point of 
reference for their thesis requirements but note that this predates many 
functions and applications now available on personal computers. 
Specifications now generally include:
●
●details on submission process, binding formats and number of 
copies to be provided;
●
●inclusion of certain introductory elements, namely, title page (title, 
author, year of presentation), abstract, declaration as to originality 
of the document (both student and supervisor), acknowledgements, 
and table of contents (Ch 28);
364 
Writing up your research
●
●length of theses (these vary depending on the level of degree 
for which the thesis is submitted) but usually range from 75,000 
to 100,000 words (variously including or excluding appendices, 
footnotes and bibliography);
●
●page and margin sizes; page numbering; justification and 
indentation;
●
●font, point size and line spacing (usually 1.5 or double line);
●
●numbering of chapters, headings and sub-headings;
●
●layout of diagrams, illustrations and other visuals including 
photographs as well as inclusion of electronic data or other realia; 
●
●inclusion of glossaries, footnotes, endnotes and reference list or 
bibliography (referencing style may be prescribed by the institution 
or may be dictated by professional standards).
Obviously, any guidance regarding format has to be followed 
precisely as part of the regulatory system that applies to postgraduate 
degrees.
Layout of text
Theses are normally word-processed. This gives a professional 
result and also makes the drafting and editing phases easier. Some 
regulations require printing on only one side of the paper, others (as an 
eco-friendly measure) wish printing on both sides.
There are a number of conventions 
regarding the presentation of 
academic writing. These are discussed 
below and some important aspects are 
summarised in checklist form in Table 
30.1.
Font
There are two main choices: serif 
types, with extra strokes at the end 
of the main strokes of each letter, and 
sans serif types, without these strokes 
(see Figure 30.1). The type to use is 
usually left to personal preference. 
Figure 30.1  Examples of the 
main types of font at different 
point sizes.
30  Thesis presentation 
365
Table 30.1  Checklist for conventions in the presentation of academic 
writing.
Abbreviations
❏
❏In some disciplines the abbreviations i.e. and e.g. are acceptable in academic 
text; in others these are not used; etc. should never be used in academic text
❏
❏&, the ampersand, is not commonly used in text, although it is used routinely 
in certain referencing styles
❏
❏Where abbreviations are used to express units, for example, SI units, then this 
is acceptable
❏
❏Subject-specific dictionaries will provide most common abbreviations used in 
a particular field
Acronyms
❏
❏Do not use acronyms in the title of a paper or thesis
❏
❏Provide an alphabetical list of abbreviations and acronyms at the beginning of 
technical reports and manuals
❏
❏Define acronyms the first time that they appear in the text
❏
❏Only capitalise definitions of acronyms if they are proper nouns
❏
❏Form plurals of acronyms only by adding -s, as in QUANGOs – do not add an 
apostrophe
❏
❏Some acronyms become ‘words’ in their own right: NATO (North Atlantic 
Treaty Organisation)
Fonts and point size
❏
❏The norms are either Times New Roman or Arial
❏
❏The point size is usually 12 point
❏
❏Larger point size is usually selected for chapter headings and sub-headings 
❏
❏The same font and selected point sizes should be used consistently 
throughout the work 
❏
❏Latin words such as et al. (and others) and in vitro, should be printed in italics
❏
❏If emphasis is required – usually rarely in academic writing – then use only one 
feature: either bold or italics or underlining, but not any combination of these
Headings and sub-headings
Conventions and preferences differ. Check with your department or supervisor 
about presentation ‘rules’ that will apply to your thesis. In the absence of any 
other instruction, the following approach may be followed:
❏
❏Use a capital only at the first letter of a title and at proper nouns within the title
❏
❏Full stops are not necessary in titles
❏
❏If a strap line, introduced by a colon, is used after the title, place the words 
following in lower case unless they are proper names (initial capital) or acronyms
❏
❏Sub-headings, if used/permitted, need to be laid out consistently using the 
same font and point size throughout
Continued overleaf
366 
Writing up your research
Lists
❏
❏Each point on bulleted lists should begin with a capital letter provided that 
there is no preceding ‘sentence stem’ introducing the list (usually ending with 
a colon)
Punctuation 
❏
❏If in doubt, add punctuation where you would normally pause, if you were to 
read your work aloud
❏
❏For bullet points, the academic conventions vary. (a) One commonly used 
convention in some disciplines requires no full stops at the end of each 
bullet (particularly if the bullet consists of only a few words). Where the 
bullet extends into more than one sentence, then the last sentence and any 
intervening ones are finished by full stops. (b) In other areas, the convention 
adopted is to use a full stop at the end if the bullet point is a complete 
sentence and a semi-colon if the bullet is incomplete. (c) Another option 
commonly used is one in which a phrase or sentence ‘stem’ (followed by a full 
colon) introduces the bulleted list. The bullets that follow each ‘complete’ the 
introductory stem as a sentence. Thus, the list of bullets creates an extended 
sentence in which each bullet is an element. In such cases a semi-colon is 
used at the end of each bullet point and a full-stop after the last bullet. 
❏
❏Whichever citation system you use, ensure that the punctuation format is 
followed consistently
Spelling
❏
❏In some disciplines, for example, chemistry, the internationally recognised 
convention is to use American spelling for words such as, sulfur, analyze, 
organization
❏
❏Spell-checking is not a guarantee of error-free spelling; ensure that you check 
your work by reading it through to avoid errors such as: from/form – both are 
perfectly good words but if you mean one and not the other, the spell-checker 
would not identify the error
A serif font is said to be easier to read. The point size (pt) of the font 
is more likely to be specified, which will probably be 11 or 12 point 
for ease of reading. You should avoid using elaborate font types as 
generally they will not help the reader to assimilate what you have 
written. For the same reason, you should not use too many forms of 
emphasis. Choose italics or bold and stick with one only. Symbols 
are often used in academic work and in Microsoft Word can be added 
using the ‘Insert > Symbol’ menu.
Margins
A typical convention is for left-hand margins to be 4 cm and the 
right-hand margins 2.5 cm. This allows space for any examiner’s 
comments and ensures that the text can be read if a left-hand binding 
is used.
30  Thesis presentation 
367
Line spacing
Text that is spaced at least at 1.5–2 lines apart is easier to read. Some 
examiners like to add pencil comments as they read the text and this 
leaves them space to do so. The exception is where you wish to use 
long quotations. These should be indented and typed in single-line 
spacing in most citation styles but not all (see McMillan and Weyers, 
2013).
Paragraphs
The key thing to remember about layout is to make good use of the 
‘white space’. This means that you should lay out your paragraphs 
clearly and consistently. Some people prefer the indentation method, 
where the paragraph begins on the fourth character space from the 
left-hand margin (Figure 30.2(a)). Others prefer the blocked paragraph 
style, that is, where all paragraphs begin on the left-hand margin, 
but are separated by a double-line space (Figure 30.2(b)). The space 
between paragraphs should be roughly equivalent to a missing line.
In Microsoft Word these aspects can be controlled using the ‘Format > 
Paragraph’ menu.
Sub-headings
In some disciplines use of sub-headings is acceptable or even 
favoured, though in others these ‘signpost’ strategies are discouraged. 
It is best to consult your supervisor about this if you are uncertain. 
Sub-headings are usually in bold.
Figure 30.2  Types of paragraph layout. (a) Indented and (b) blocked. Note 
that in the indented model, by convention, the first paragraph in any section is 
not indented.
368 
Writing up your research
Punctuation
Standard punctuation applies to all types of academic writing. One 
decision you may wish to make is about spaces between sentences 
– whether to use one or two. This is generally a matter of personal 
preference. Take special care to ensure the punctuation of the 
reference list follows the appropriate convention and is consistent 
(Ch 20).
Word count
You may be asked to work to a word count and this can be checked 
using standard functions on your word-processor. If you greatly 
exceed this limit, this will almost certainly impact on your presentation 
as you will confront the reader with too much information and will 
probably not be writing in the expected concise fashion (Chs 26 
and 27).
Citations and references
Providing citations and a reference list is standard practice (Ch 20). 
You must be consistent in the referencing style you adopt, and some 
disciplines impose strict subject-specific conventions. If in doubt, 
consult your course handbook, institutional regulations or library 
guidelines.
Quotations and formulae
Quotations can be integrated into the text when short, but are usually 
presented as a ‘special’ type of paragraph when long. In either case, 
the source and date of publication are provided after the quotation. 
Chapter 20 provides detailed guidance on the presentation of 
quotations. 
Some disciplines, for example, English Literature and Law, have very 
specific rules for the way in which quotations are to be laid out and 
referenced. In such cases, consult your course handbook or ask for 
guidance from a tutor.
Short formulae or equations can be included in text, but they are 
probably better presented on a separate line and indented, thus
α + 4β/η2π = 0
(Eqn. 8.7)
Where a large number of formulae are included, they can be numbered 
for ease of cross-reference, as shown in this example.
30  Thesis presentation 
369
Inserting figures in text
Integrated suites of office-type software allow you to insert the graphs 
you produced using the spreadsheet program into text produced 
with the word-processing program. The two programs can even be 
linked so that changes on the spreadsheet data automatically appear 
in the graph within the word-processed file. Consult the manual or 
‘Help’ facility to find out how to do this. In Microsoft Word, digital 
photographs can be inserted using the ‘Insert > Picture > From File’ 
command.
i
Quoting numbers in text
Adopt the following rules:
●
●In general writing, spell out numbers from one to ten and use figures 
for 11 and above; in formal writing, spell out numbers from one to a 
hundred and use figures beyond this.
●
●Spell out high numbers that can be written in two words (‘six 
hundred’). With a number like 4,200,000, you also have the choice of 
writing ‘4.2 million’.
●
●Always use figures for dates, times, currency or to give technical 
details (‘5-amp fuse’).
●
●Always spell out numbers that begin sentences, indefinite numbers 
(‘hundreds of soldiers’) or fractions (‘seven-eighths’).
●
●Hyphenate numbers and fractions appropriately (‘twenty-five’).
Incorporating figures and tables
In many disciplines, you will be expected to support your discussion 
with visual material or data, and it is important that you do so in a 
fashion that best helps the reader to assimilate the information. You 
must also follow any specific presentational rules that apply in your 
subject area.
Figures
The academic convention is to include a wide range of visual material 
under the term ‘Figure’ (‘Fig.’ for short). This includes graphs, 
diagrams, charts, sketches, pictures and photographs, although 
in some disciplines and contexts the latter may be referred to as 
‘plates’.
370 
Writing up your research
The following set of guidelines should be adopted when including 
figures:
●
●All figures should be referred to in the text. There is a range of 
‘standard’ formulations (collocations, Ch 27) for doing this, such as 
‘Figure 4 shows that. . .’; or ‘. . . results for one treatment were higher 
than for the other (see Fig. 2)’. Find what is appropriate from the 
literature or texts in your subject area.
●
●Figures should be numbered in the order they are referred to in the 
text. If you are including the figures within the main body of text 
(usually more convenient for the reader) then they should appear at 
the next suitable position in the text after the first time of mention. At 
the very least this will be after the paragraph that includes the first 
citation, but more normally will be at the top of the following page.
●
●Figures should be positioned at the top or bottom of a page, rather 
than sandwiched between blocks of text. This looks neater and 
makes the text easier to read.
●
●Each figure must have a legend, which will include the figure 
number, a title and some text (often a key to the symbols and line 
styles used). The convention is for figure legends to appear below 
each figure. Your aim should be to make each figure self-contained. 
That is, a reader who knows the general subject area should be 
able to work out what your figure shows, without reference to other 
material.
●
●Figure presentation should follow normal academic conventions. For 
example, with line graphs, the norm is to put the controlled variable 
or category of measurement on the x-axis (horizontal axis) and the 
measured variable on the y-axis (vertical axis). Take great care to 
ensure that the quantity plotted and its units are provided for all 
axes. (Ch 21)
Choosing the right type of figure to display information is an art in itself 
(Ch 21). Although there are technical reasons why some forms of data 
should be presented in particular ways (for example, proportional data 
in a pie chart rather than a line chart), your main focus should always 
be on selecting a method that will best help the reader assimilate the 
information presented (Ch 21). The ‘Chart Wizard’ in the Microsoft 
Office Excel spreadsheet program is a possible starting point for 
exploring the range of possibilities.
When presenting individual figures, clarity should be your main aim 
– ensuring, for example, that the different slices of a pie chart or the 
30  Thesis presentation 
371
lines and symbols in a graph are clearly distinguishable from one 
another. Consistency is also important, so you should use the same 
line or shading for the same entity in all your figures (for example, 
hollow symbols for ‘controls’). The widespread availability of colour 
printers should help with this, but some departments may insist on 
the use of black and white, since this was the convention when colour 
printing was prohibitively expensive. If you are using colour, keep it 
‘tasteful’ and remember that certain colour combinations are not easily 
differentiated by some readers. 
Tables
These are used to summarise large amounts of information, 
especially where a reader might be interested in some of the detail 
of the data (Ch 21). Tables are especially useful for qualitative 
information but numerical data can also be presented, especially if 
they relate to a discontinuous qualitative variable (for example, the 
population sizes and occupation breakdown of various geographical 
regions).
Tables generally include a number of columns (vertical) and rows 
(horizontal). By analogy with figures, the convention is to put the 
controlled or measured variable on the column headers (horizontal) 
and to place the measured variable or categories of measurement in 
the rows (vertical). Do not forget to include the units of the information 
listed if this is relevant.
The rules for presenting tables are very similar to those for figures, with 
the important exception that a table legend should appear above the 
table. It is quite common to give exceptions and other information as 
footnotes to tables.
Don’t automatically accept the graphical output  
from spreadsheets and other programs
These are not always in the ‘correct’ style. For example, the default 
output for many charts produced by the Microsoft Office Excel 
spreadsheet includes a grey background and horizontal gridlines, 
neither of which is generally used in academia. It is not difficult to alter 
these parts of the chart, however, and you should learn how to do this 
from manuals or the ‘Help’ facility.
✔
372 
Writing up your research
Formatting, printing and binding
There will come a time when you consider your thesis writing is ready 
for the final stages of presentation. This involves a number of checks 
where attention to detail is essential:
●
●Final inspection for consistency. This will depend on the nature 
of the research, but could involve spelling checks, consistency 
in punctuation, explanation of abbreviations at first use, fonts for 
headings, and so on.
●
●Formatting. You will need to check each page carefully and in 
sequence to see that spacing conventions have been obeyed and 
that there are no untidy ‘widows’ and ‘orphans’ – paragraphs where 
splits between pages result in one or few lines on either side. Any 
tables or figures should be in the correct position and orientation.
●
●Numbering. You will need to ensure that all pages are numbered 
correctly and in true sequence, as well as the figures, tables and 
other numbered elements, such as case studies.
●
●Contents page. You can only complete this once the final page 
numbering is known. You will also then be able to complete the lists 
of figures and tables with page numbering.
●
●References. You need to run a final check to ensure (a) that all 
citations in the text have a corresponding entry in the reference 
list and (b) that all entries in the reference list are actually cited. 
Checking the formatting of references is a very tedious task, but 
essential. 
When these checks are complete, you will be ready for printing. This 
should be carried out using a good (laser) printer using good quality 
Figure or table?
In certain cases it may be possible to present the same data set as 
a figure or as a table. The first rule in such cases is never do both – 
choose the method that best suits your data and the target reader. 
An important criterion is to decide which will best help the reader 
assimilate the information. If the take-home message is best shown 
visually, then a figure might be preferable; whereas, if details and 
numerical accuracy are important, then a table might be more suitable.
?
30  Thesis presentation 
373
paper. You will need several copies – one for yourself, one for your 
supervisor, and others for the examiners (and possibly for the library). 
Although there is an expense attached, this is probably best carried 
by a specialist photocopy or printing house. They can also advise on 
temporary binding options. You should not contemplate a final binding 
at this stage in case there are changes to be made after the viva exam 
(Ch 31). 
The postgraduate office (or equivalent) will specify how to submit. 
Normally there is a process whereby you advise them of your ‘intention 
to submit’, which allows them to carry out the necessary administrative 
processes to set up your viva.
Following your viva, you may have corrections to make, and after these 
have been ‘signed off’ (often by your supervisor), you can proceed to 
the final thesis binding. There are binderies in most large cities and 
some of the larger universities.
Action points
30.1  Prepare well for printing out your final version. Many 
students opt to print out their final thesis copies using their own word 
processor and printer. Should you choose to do this rather than use 
the services of a professional printing company, be sure that, before 
you begin, you have sufficient paper of the same (high) quality and ink 
to allow you to complete the necessary processes. Finding that your 
supplies run out part way through the process could involve you in 
significant delays and even make you miss the submission deadline.
Take pride and pleasure from your work
By the time that you reach this final stage you will have spent many, 
many hours on producing the final thesis. What you are handling now 
will be the product of those hours and the culmination of study and 
thinking about a complex research issue. Even though your energy 
reserves may be low, keep your standards up to ensure that your 
submission is of the best possible quality. At this time, you should take 
huge pride in what you have done – the breadth of the research, the 
triumph over problems and the sense that you have done the job and 
done it well.
✔
374 
Writing up your research
30.2  Look at a recently submitted thesis to gauge the overall 
standard or presentation expected. Ask a past student (perhaps 
someone in your supervisor’s research group) whether you can 
look at their thesis, or ask your supervisor whether he or she can 
show you a past example that was rated highly. Examine this 
carefully for elements of presentation mentioned in this chapter.
30.3  Make good use of the ‘dead time’ between submission 
and your viva voce exam. By all means take a well-deserved 
break, but don’t rest on your laurels entirely. You could use this 
some of this time productively by preparing for the viva (Ch 31) and 
checking out recent additions to the literature in your field.
Examination
and beyond
31  The PhD viva 
377
31
How to prepare for and 
perform in your oral exam
The PhD viva
The viva voce exam requires preparation as much as any other exam. 
This chapter informs you about the aims and conduct of oral exams, 
so you can be ready to make the most of the experience.
Key topics
➔
➔What is the purpose of the viva voce?
➔
➔The format of the viva voce exam
➔
➔Criteria on which the viva voce is judged
➔
➔Preparing for the viva voce exam
➔
➔Conduct during the exam
➔
➔The outcome of the viva voce exam
For some postgraduate students, the viva voce is an unknown 
quantity; for others it is a subject that has been much discussed with 
fellow postgraduates to the point of confusion. It can be one of the 
least understood (or perhaps the most misunderstood) phases of 
the doctoral process. At the outset, it must be noted that each viva 
is unique to the topic and to the personalities involved. However, it 
can be generally acknowledged that it is a compulsory part of your 
examination and one where certain regulations apply to the conduct 
and outcomes. 
What does viva voce mean?
The term is Latin, meaning ‘by live voice’. The intention is an interactive 
face-to-face discussion about your research, as presented in your 
thesis.
?
378 
Examination and beyond
What is the purpose of the viva voce?
In the preparation and submission of the thesis you effectively 
complete the written criteria for the examination of your postgraduate 
programme. The viva voce exam serves two main purposes:
●
●a formal platform to assess the level of your theory, technical 
expertise, and the effectiveness of your understanding of 
communication skills;
●
●a test of quality assurance – to determine how and why you 
approached your project the way you did, and whether your work is 
original.
With respect to the latter, you are expected to defend and justify the 
quality of your thesis, which is why some refer to the viva voce exam as 
the ‘defence’ of a thesis.
Understandably, many students are apprehensive about their viva 
for any of a variety of reasons – for example, it is the last phase of 
the process and the huge investment of time, money and effort may 
result in failure; they may be daunted by the reputation of the external 
examiner and fear that they will not be able to meet exacting questions; 
they may simply be overawed by the occasion. To counter this 
apprehension, several points should be considered:
●
●Fear of failure is a natural human feeling, but very few PhD students 
actually fail their viva and you should also take confidence from the 
fact that you probably know as much as anyone about your subject. 
An ‘I can do this’ attitude will serve you well in the viva itself, so 
trying to master that mental attitude should be an important part of 
your preparation.
●
●The external examiner, of course, was once in your position, 
nervously facing the viva. While he or she has a duty to ask 
challenging questions, they will also have a degree of empathy with 
your position and recognise that helping you feel at ease is part 
of their role. Nerves are perfectly natural and should be regarded 
positively as the body’s way of putting itself on alert for a challenge 
ahead.
●
●Being intimidated by the viva process is a natural reaction, especially 
since you will not have been in an examination situation for some 
years. As noted above, by this stage you will possibly more of an 
expert in this particular topic than those examining your thesis. 
31  The PhD viva 
379
For this reason, you should think of this as an opportunity to share 
your understanding with fellow colleagues and regard it more as a 
conversation than a confrontation. Not only will this attitude help to 
reduce your tension, it will also help the examiners to help you to 
show yourself at your best.
Knowing what to expect, as explained in this chapter, coupled with 
good preparation, will put you in a position to learn from and even 
enjoy the occasion.
The format of the viva voce exam
You will normally be examined during the viva voce by a panel of two 
or three people. This is your viva committee and will generally consist 
of an external examiner, internal examiner and the convenor. The 
external examiner is the most important person and will co-ordinate 
and lead proceedings. Most of the questions posed to you will 
probably be directed from this person and it is therefore important that 
you familiarise yourself before the viva on the area of expertise of your 
external examiner.
You will probably already be familiar with your internal examiner since 
he/she may well conduct their research within your department. This 
person will also question you, though normally the internal’s role is 
primarily regulatory, to ensure that the examination is run fairly and that 
proceedings are carried out according to your university’s guidelines. 
They may interject at certain stages during the examination.
The convenor’s role will probably be carried out by another academic 
from a non-related area in the department or institution. He or she will 
help identify and call together the examiners at a time which is suitable 
for all parties. Once this has been accomplished the convenor’s task 
Find out about your examiner
Once you know who your external examiner is going to be, look into 
his or her profile online, using appropriate web searches. Seeing a 
smiling face in a publicity photograph might help to convince you that 
he or she is no ogre. Knowing more about your external’s research 
interests, teaching and other information will also set you mind at ease 
and may help with your preparation for questions.
✔
380 
Examination and beyond
is effectively complete although he or she may chair the event. Your 
supervisor may or may not sit in on the examination, though their role 
will be essentially passive if they do, and may just involve note-taking. 
They rarely take an active role in defending the student’s thesis or 
questioning, but may be drawn in by the external in the later stages of 
discussion.
Criteria on which the viva voce is judged
Formal criteria are laid out by each university on which the assessment 
of the viva voce is based. Your examiners will be made aware of these 
as part of their preparation for the exam. A good examiner will focus 
the proceedings appropriately in order to make informed decisions 
on your performance in each of these areas. The precise criteria differ 
according to university, but the emphasis will be on:
●
●the requirement for novelty – ascertaining your unique contribution 
to the field;
●
●the need for reliability – confirming that you are ethical and honest;
●
●demonstrable ownership of the work – that you have the ability to 
discuss the thesis in detail.
Some encapsulate this in stating that the thesis, or large parts of it, 
should be of ‘publishable quality’ (Ch 32).
Preparing for the viva voce exam
Good preparation for the viva voce is as important as it is for a written 
exam. However, many research students often find the event hard to 
picture. How do you prepare for this type of exam? What do you need 
to revise? These kinds of questions regularly crop up.
If you have got this far, it is highly likely that you have been very 
successful at written examinations in the past. You need to determine 
a systematic strategy of revision, similar, or adapted from that you may 
have incorporated into your revision for previous exams. Presented 
here are the most important points to bear in mind.
●
●Firstly, and most importantly, make sure you know your thesis. 
Although you wrote it, you will almost certainly need to refresh 
yourself on some of the finer points by the time the examination 
31  The PhD viva 
381
Explore the ethical dimensions of your research  
study
The external examiner may wish to discuss this aspect with you. He or 
she will be looking not only for an appreciation of issues affecting the 
study itself, but also an awareness of ethics within the wider discipline 
context.
✔
approaches. Read through it carefully, and make notes and a list of 
wider reading points you would like to check up on, or research in 
more depth.
●
●Research your examiners. Be familiar with some of their more recent 
publications or reviews. This might help you to predict likely lines of 
enquiry.
●
●Think of potential questions. As you read your thesis, imagine 
yourself in the viva and envisage the questions that may crop up, 
based on the expertise of your internal and external examiners. 
Table 31.1 provides some representative oral exam questions that 
may assist with your preparation. 
●
●Think about your previous experiences of similar panel interview 
situations. Regard these as mini-vivas. You will almost certainly have 
experienced several of these over the last few years in your thesis 
committee meetings. Be self-analytical: how did you fare? What 
were your weaknesses? How could you improve?
●
●Examine your work retrospectively. If you had your time over, how 
would you change/refine/improve your approach or methods? A 
good researcher should be able to identify limitations. Expect to be 
asked about these and you should be frank about them, rather than 
defensive.
●
●Know about the technical stuff. As well as showing an understanding 
your research, it is also likely that you will be questioned on 
technical details as well as your research methodology. For example, 
if you used a complex piece of equipment, make sure you know how 
it works and why you used it.
●
●Prepare to give spoken answers. Create a list of questions and 
then orally answer them. Alternatively, get a friend to ask you 
questions, perhaps based on Table 31.1. These people need not be 
experts in the field, because often the simplest questions are most 
difficult to answer – for example, ‘how would you describe in a few 
382 
Examination and beyond
Table 31.1  Some representative oral exam questions. Of course, it is 
impossible to predict the exact questions, as most will be related to detailed 
content. This listing provides some typical question scenarios where you can 
provide the detail according to your project. Of course, not all the questions will 
be applicable to your study, nor will the format always be question and answer.
Rationale
Typical questions
Opening gambits – 
designed to put you 
at ease and provide 
background information 
for the examiner
• Have you enjoyed your PhD study? 
• What has been the best bit of the PhD for you?
• Why did you choose this field of study?
• Why did you choose this approach?
Context – finding out 
where your research fits 
into the field
• How would you summarise progress in this 
research area prior to your study?
• Who are the most important researchers in this 
area in your opinion, and why?
• Who were your main influences?
Thesis organisation – 
understanding the plan 
behind your thesis
• Can you outline the structure of your thesis for me?
• Why did you organise your thesis this way?
Methodology – revealing 
what you understand 
about the techniques you 
used
• Why did you adopt this particular methodology?
• What alternative methodologies did you consider?
• Why did you discount them? 
• How did you develop this method?
• What are the main weaknesses/limitations of your 
methods?
Technical details – 
an exploration of the 
methods or approach 
you have used (for 
sciences mainly)
• How does this instrument work?
• Can you talk me through this procedure?
• Can you tell me about the standardisation tests you 
carried out?
• Why did you choose these treatments?
• Why did you include this control?
• What difficulties, if any, did you encounter in 
gathering data?
Results or position 
– finding out how you 
arrived at your results or 
viewpoint
• Can you sum up your main findings in a few 
sentences?
• What is new or original about your work?
• Why did you arrive at this viewpoint?
• Can you explain what’s involved in this statistical 
analysis?
• Can you tell me about the errors associated with 
this result?
31  The PhD viva 
383
sentences what you achieved in your project’. It is likely that you 
will face a similar opening gambit near the beginning of your exam. 
You don’t want to produce a rambling response which goes off at 
tangents. Practise so you can keep it concise and succinct.
●
●Be aware of where and how you think the research could be 
developed in the future. What are the wider implications of your 
work for the field? This is a common question near the end of an 
oral exam.
●
●Stay calm and focused. You will probably feel apprehensive before 
the exam. This is normal and nerves are often a very positive thing 
enabling you to be alert and focused at the right time. However, 
you don’t want anxiety levels to reach a point where they adversely 
affect your performance. Use techniques that have worked in the 
past to keep you composed.
●
●Prepare a timetable of revision incorporating ideas from these 
points. Stick to a schedule in the run-up to the exam. Don’t cram the 
night before; get plenty of sleep so that you feel fresh and ready for 
the event. 
Interpretation – 
exploring your analysis 
• Can you explain this result? 
• Why did you conclude this?
• What might you have done differently?
Meaning and impact 
– discussing the 
significance of your work 
• Why do you feel this is a consequence of your 
findings?
• How does your work contribute to the field?
• What do you think is the impact of your work?
• What plans do you have for publishing your work?
Future development – 
finding out what could 
happen next
• What do your results mean in the wider context?
• If you had another year of research, what would 
you do?
• What would you recommend as further steps in this 
research?
Personal focus – 
reflecting on the 
experience 
• What skills do you think you take away from this 
PhD study?
• What do you think you’ve learnt about academic 
research?
• What do you know now that you wish you had 
known at the outset?
• What are you going to do next?
384 
Examination and beyond
Conduct during the exam
Most research students feel apprehensive before their viva voce exam. 
Some students find it useful a day or so before the event, to visit 
the room in which the thesis committee will meet, so rehearsing the 
occasion as mental preparation. Once you arrive at the real exam make 
sure you have considered these important points:
●
●Make sure you arrive promptly and wear reasonably smart clothing. 
It may be regarded as disrespectful to the examiner and the general 
situation to turn up late in jeans and a T-shirt.
●
●When answering questions, take your time and speak clearly. Pause 
before responding and use this as a strategy to think about what 
you have been asked and gather your thoughts to form a concise 
answer.
●
●Use a logical structure for your responses. Start with the basics and 
then you can develop the deeper aspects.
●
●Don’t give long, rambling answers. Try to produce a clear, crisp 
response and then stop speaking when you have finished.
●
●If you do not know the answer to a question, then say so. Your 
examiners will quickly pick up your lack of knowledge, if you try 
to give a waffled or irrelevant answer. If you are unsure what the 
examiner meant by the question, ask them to clarify or repeat the 
question.
●
●Give balanced answers and discuss the appropriate evidence for 
and against your viewpoint, explaining why you think the way you 
do.
●
●Be prepared to hold your ground, but don’t argue with your examiner 
if your ideas are not in agreement. It is reasonable to accept that 
there might be an alternative point of view or interpretation while 
also defending your ideas, detailing the supporting evidence.
●
●Most of all, project your enthusiasm for your project and be positive.
Be prepared to expand on answers to 
‘closed’ questions
Some viva voce questions will be ‘closed’ – that is, inviting a ‘yes’ or 
‘no’ answer (for example, ‘can you tell me about x?’). In this situation 
you should elaborate your answer with more detail or reasoning.
✔
31  The PhD viva 
385
The outcome of the viva voce exam
A viva voce exam generally lasts for one to three hours, but may extend 
up to five. The length is not necessarily an indication of how well or 
how badly the proceedings are going – it may be that you have an 
extremely thorough external examiner, or that you simply have a lot of 
interesting material to talk about.
Once the exam is brought to a close you will generally be asked to 
leave the room while your internal and external examiners agree on a 
decision regarding the outcome of the combined thesis and viva. You 
will be invited back after five or ten minutes and informed immediately 
of this decision. Typically, the recommendation arising from the thesis 
examining committee will fall into one of six categories.
1	 The thesis is accepted for the degree.
2	 The thesis is accepted subject to: (a) minor corrections being made 
(time limitations may apply) and/or (b) the thesis being bound 
satisfactorily.
3	 The thesis is not accepted in its present form, but the candidate is 
given the opportunity to re-submit a revised form.
4	 The thesis does not meet the requirements of a PhD, but does 
warrant consideration for Master’s level degree. No re-examination 
required following the appropriate amendments.
5	 The thesis warrants consideration for a Master’s degree, but will also 
require re-examination after amending.
6	 The thesis is rejected with no right for revision or re-submission.
Your examiners will provide you with instructions on what the next 
steps will need to involve. For example, category 2 above is probably 
Arrive at the viva with your own list of errata
The external examiner will have closely read your thesis, and will 
probably have spotted a number of minor errors (errata). Some 
examiners will simply present a paper listing these errors for correction 
before thesis binding, but, on occasion, they may wish to discuss 
particular points in detail. It is a good idea to come to the exam with 
your own list of errors. This shows that you have been self-critical and 
are aware of the technical requirements of thesis writing.
✔
386 
Examination and beyond
the most common outcome, so you may be required to make minor 
corrections, which will need to be verified subsequently by the internal 
examiner. Once the standard is met for submission to the university, 
you will be required to produce several hard bound copies of the 
thesis, and, increasingly, an electronic copy on DVD, which are 
delivered to the postgraduate office.
The final remaining step will be the administrative forms for graduation, 
and, we trust, organising a suitable celebration with friends, family and 
staff.
Action points
31.1  Speak to a recently successful PhD student. Ask them 
about their viva voce experience, the sorts of questions asked 
by the external examiner and how they might have prepared 
differently, given a second chance. Remember, however, that 
external examiners differ in approach.
31.2  Practise summarising your key findings. You should be 
able to state, in relatively few words, what advances you feel you 
have made and the context in which they sit. You should also think 
through any deficiencies in your work and how you might remedy 
these, given time and resources.
31.3  Set up a mock PhD viva. Your supervisor may suggest 
having a mock viva, but, if not, ask them or another academic 
working in your area to spend a while letting you practise speaking 
about your work by answering typical questions, such as those in 
Table 31.1. Their feedback may provide vital pointers for the real 
examination.
32  Publishing your research 
387
How to write and submit 
a successful paper
Publishing your research
32
In some ways the high point of research activity is publication of 
your results or ideas in the academic literature. This ensures your 
thoughts are a matter of record, establishes your precedence 
and communicates your work to others. Having your thesis work 
published also ensures that you have met relevant discipline 
standards.
Key topics
➔
➔Is your work publishable?
➔
➔Choosing a journal
➔
➔Writing and submitting a paper
➔
➔What happens to my paper after submission?
For a large part of your time as a postgraduate, your focus will be on 
completing your thesis. However, some might regard the pinnacle of 
postgraduate research as the publication of your work, rather than 
its production as a thesis. Certainly, producing work of publishable 
quality is one of the recognised benchmarks for the PhD degree. The 
best way to ensure that you meet that criterion is to submit, and have 
accepted, a journal article, book chapter or abstract. There will be few 
prouder moments in your research career than when you see your first 
publication in print.
Is your work publishable?
There is no point in submitting research that will be rejected at the 
first hurdle. Your supervisor will be the best source of advice on the 
388 
Examination and beyond
‘publishability’ of your work. The criteria for this differ among disciplines 
and journals, but essentially, to be of an appropriate standard to be 
published, the work should be ‘new, true and meaningful’.
Before starting to write, you will need to review your work critically 
under these headings (see also Ch 31):
●
●‘New’ means a variety of things including being original, adopting 
a novel approach and adding to the sum of knowledge and 
understanding.
●
●‘True’ encompasses elements of reliability, in other words, satisfying 
the scholarly standards of your discipline in terms of, for example, 
sources cited, methods used, or statistical analysis of results.
●
●‘Meaningful’ means having impact within your field. It is not enough 
to satisfy the first two measures above without meeting this one. This 
carries connotations of newsworthiness, timeliness and added-value.
Another way to look at this topic is to review methods of persuasion 
(Ch 18). The advice given there can be adapted to the way in which 
you ‘sell’ your paper in the introductory section. If you can do this 
convincingly, you will be half-way to acceptance.
The material included in a paper will generally be a subset of the 
total work done during a project, so it must be carefully selected for 
relevance to a clear central position or hypothesis – if the authors will 
not prune, the referees and editors of the journal certainly will.
Choosing a journal
You should try to publish in an appropriate journal for the subject of 
your paper, and preferably one with a high reputation for its content. 
Newer journals (for example, some online publications) often struggle 
to establish their status immediately.
Write out a three-sentence description of your 
paper
This outline should encapsulate how you might persuade a potential 
reader to explore the detail of your work. If, when you have done this, 
you feel you have something to say, then continue with the draft. If not, 
review your possible contribution with your supervisor.
✔
32  Publishing your research 
389
Impact factors for journals
The impact factor is a method is assessing the importance of a journal 
within an academic discipline. It is based on the average number of 
citations for articles in that journal over a specific time period. Although 
each paper must be judged on its own merits and not just in the short 
term, the fact that a publication is accepted for a high-impact journal 
is often taken as an indicator of its potential importance. Institutional 
research funding may rest on such metrics. Therefore, both you and 
your supervisor should be aiming for publication in journals of the 
highest possible impact factor. Journal impact factors can be found at 
the Thompson Reuters Web of Knowledge if your institution has signed 
up to this database.
i
Having reviewed the literature in your subject for your thesis proposal, 
mid-term progress reviews and Introduction, you will have a good 
overview of the main journals in your area and will be able to 
characterise them in terms of content of papers and style. If not, perhaps 
your supervisor will be able to make some suggestions. Otherwise, 
consult your subject librarian, and ask them to list the premier titles in 
your area, so that you can look at these. Matters of content and style 
change over time, as the subject evolves and editorial teams come and 
go, so ensure that you are looking at current volumes of any title.
Other factors that might be taken into account include:
●
●your supervisor’s track record of publication in the journal;
●
●whether there is a continuing ‘theme’ of publication on your specific 
topic;
●
●whether you or your supervisor are members of a journal’s 
sponsoring academic society;
●
●the number and geographical distribution of potential readers.
It will probably be evident which candidate journals are realistic 
options. Once you have such a short-list, you should review each 
journal’s criteria for submission. These will be published in the 
‘Instructions to Authors’ rubric that is included from time to time in 
the published editions or on the publisher’s website. This may help 
you to narrow down the choice yet further. You should note that some 
journals require the submission of an outline of the proposed paper 
which is then vetted for its suitability in terms of content and relevance 
to the journal before the author is invited to submit a full paper.
390 
Examination and beyond
Writing and submitting a paper
The choice of journal always dictates the format of a paper since 
authors must follow to the letter the journal’s ‘Instructions to Authors’. 
If you seek out a recent article covering a similar area to yours, 
you can work using this as a model. Ideally, it will be a well-written 
example.
Matters to look at closely are:
●
●overall structure and subdivisions of typical papers (there may be 
different forms covering, for example, short communications, papers 
or reviews);
●
●the relative extents of the different components (some journals prefer 
very short introductions, for example);
●
●the language style used (what specialised language is used);
●
●brevity (whether very short introduction, description and discussion 
is encouraged, or whether there is the opportunity to expand on your 
theme);
●
●the style used for citations and references (see Ch 20);
●
●the numbers of references and the way citations are used (some 
journals and editors expect all substantive statements to be backed 
up);
●
●styles used for figures and tables;
●
●the recommended total extent in words or pages (this will limit what 
you can include).
If your submitted paper mimics the expected standards and style of 
your chosen journal, then this will help referees and editors visualise 
it in print in the journal and make their task of reviewing and editing 
easier. In short, it will put them on your side.
In the non-sciences, if a PhD student submits to a journal, it is quite 
likely to be a single-author paper in their own name. Nevertheless, you 
Concurrent submissions
The convention is that authors can only submit a paper to one journal 
at a time and you may be required to sign a declaration stating that is 
the case. This is because issues of copyright are involved.
i
32  Publishing your research 
391
should always keep your supervisor informed and ask him or her to 
look over drafts. In the sciences, multi-author publications are normal, 
and there are often local conventions about the order of authorship that 
will appear in the final printed version. 
The actual process of writing will include outlining and reviewing as 
discussed elsewhere in this book. The final version must be as clearly 
written and as error-free as possible, so it may be a good idea to allow 
an independent academic to look over it with a critical eye. Any figures 
must be finished to an appropriate standard and this may involve 
preparing photographs or digital images of them.
What happens to my paper after submission?
When you have completed your paper, you will need to submit copies 
to the editor of the chosen journal with a simple covering letter or 
email. He or she will decide whether the article is worth considering 
seriously. If not, it will be returned, perhaps with some suggestions as 
to how it might be improved.
If your paper is to be considered for publication, it will first be 
distributed to two or more referees (usually anonymous, but not 
always) who will have some expertise in the field of the topic area. 
Their role is to check the paper to ensure that it is novel, factually 
correct (if applicable) and that its length is justified. They may be asked 
to ‘grade’ the submission as to its suitability for publication, often using 
journal-specific criteria, and to list any corrections or modifications they 
would like to see. A delay of one to two months can arise while the 
manuscript goes through this refereeing process.
Deciding on authorship
In the case of multi-author papers, a contentious issue is often who 
should appear as an author and in what order they should be cited. 
It is important to decide this at an early stage. Where authors make 
an equal contribution, an alphabetical order of names may be used. 
Otherwise, each author should have made a substantial contribution 
to the paper and should be prepared to defend it in public. Ideally, the 
order of appearance will reflect the amount of work done rather than 
seniority. This may not happen in practice.
i
392 
Examination and beyond
The process of evaluation and review of manuscripts is known as peer 
review.
Once the referees’ comments are returned to the editor, either the editor or 
an editorial committee will consider whether the paper should be published 
in the light of the comments. Either the paper will be rejected with an 
explanation based on the journal’s publication criteria or the referee’s 
report. Even if the paper is accepted, it is normal for this to be conditional 
on the author(s) amending, cutting or otherwise altering the material.
The editor will send on the referees’ comments to the authors, who 
will then have a chance to respond. The editor will decide on the basis 
of the comments and replies to them whether the paper should be 
published. Sometimes quite heated correspondence can result if the 
authors and referees disagree.
Take a positive view when reading referees’ 
comments
You will have a vested interest in your work and may not see it 
as dispassionately as the referees. As a result, you may feel their 
comments are unfair, involve a mis-reading of your intent, or are wrong 
in academic terms. Unless the editor’s decision is outright rejection, 
there will be a possibility to answer their points and resubmit on the 
basis of adjustments. This should be done in a positive fashion, and is 
perhaps best approached from the viewpoint that is a misunderstanding 
has occurred, then this may be due to the way you have explained 
things, rather than bone-headedness on the part of the referee.
✔
If a paper is accepted, it will be sent to the typesetters. The next the 
authors may see of it is the proofs (first printed version in style of 
journal), which have to be corrected carefully for errors and returned. 
Eventually, the paper will appear in print, but a delay of six months 
following acceptance is not unusual. Nowadays, many papers are also 
available electronically, via the Web, in pdf format.
Action points
32.1  As you read the literature in your area, evaluate the 
journals in which the articles and reviews are published. Which 
ones do you admire or feel would suit your form of writing and 
research interests? Which might contribute most to your CV? 
32  Publishing your research 
393
32.2  Review your current work for the potential for 
publication. As discussed in Chapter 28, this also is one way of 
deciding on a thesis structure. Thinking and writing in the manner 
expected for publication can also help to improve the standard of 
your general thesis writing. 
32.3  Think about different potential approaches to publication. 
This chapter has focused on journal articles, but, for example, you 
might be able to publish parts of your Introduction as a review. 
If unsure of the value of your work, you might consider gaining 
feedback on it by first presenting it as a spoken presentation 
(Ch 14), gauging the reaction to it, and then moving on to 
submission of a manuscript. In the arts, some theses are published 
in their entirety. This might require prior discussion with a 
publisher. If your university has an in-house imprint, this may be a 
possible avenue.
394 
Examination and beyond
How to make appropriate 
use of your qualification
33
After your doctorate
During the tenure of your PhD studentship, your outlook on life and 
skill-set will almost certainly have changed. This may be reflected in 
new ambitions for your career. This chapter focuses on the decisions 
you need to make related to this, and how to present yourself to 
good effect when applying for jobs.
Key topics
➔
➔Career planning
➔
➔Applying for jobs
Towards the end of your PhD period, your primary focus will have been 
on writing up, but at the back of your mind will have been the question 
‘where do I go from here?’ To a certain extent, the answer to this 
question depends on why you signed up for the qualification in the first 
place:
●
●If it were envisaged as a projected first step on a career pathway as 
a researcher, then you might now be looking for postdoctoral posts 
or even junior lectureships.
●
●If it were to ‘expand you mind’ or make a contribution to your 
subject, then you may be completely open about future directions 
– in this case you will be hoping to put the skills you have gained to 
good use, but will to consider a wide range of opportunities.
The experience of carrying out a PhD is often transformative, so you 
may have completely changed your intended direction – you may 
have been turned on or off a subject, or become more or less keen on 
research as an occupation, or you may have uncovered new skills and 
interests from your experiences. For example:
33  After your doctorate 
395
●
●You may have decided that you prefer research over teaching and 
may therefore wish to work within a research institute environment.
●
●You may have found a burning desire to work as a postdoc in a 
particular researcher’s group.
●
●The self-understanding and confidence gained when teaching as 
a postgraduate may have convinced you to pursue a career in that 
direction.
●
●You may have learnt how to use a research instrument, piece 
of software or investigative approach that is in demand as an 
occupational skill.
●
●You may have enjoyed the experiences of thesis writing so much 
that you feel you would like to work in writing or journalism as a 
profession.
Career planning
The term ‘career planning’ may have appeared from time to time during 
both your undergraduate and postgraduate days. It encompasses:
●
●being aware of the opportunities for someone with your 
qualification;
●
●deciding on a potential career trajectory that suits you as a person;
●
●finding suitable vacancies;
●
●making appropriate decisions related to applications.
If you do apply for a vacancy, then you will need to:
●
●present yourself in the best possible way to potential employers;
●
●perform well in interview.
If you have been carrying out personal development planning or a 
similar exercise (Ch 5), you will probably be in a good position to move 
forward from here as you will probably have devoted time and effort to 
think about it.
As soon as you are ready, approach your university’s careers 
service. They have a duty to support postgraduates as well as 
undergraduates.
Even if you feel that the sorts of position you will be applying for are 
limited, and you feel you know where to find out about them, the staff 
of the careers service will be willing not only to assist in this, but also 
396 
Examination and beyond
to help you to present yourself in the best possible way, including help 
with CVs and interview technique.
If you are less certain about your future, careers advisors are 
experienced in asking the right questions so they can present you 
with options to consider. The careers service will also offer a series of 
seminars and workshops than might be useful.
Applying for jobs
Updating your CV
Your curriculum vitae (CV) is, of course, your primary mechanism 
for assisting a possible employer to find out who you are and what 
qualifications, experience, skills and qualities you have to offer. It is 
important to realise that your CV may be one of many that a potential 
employer will scan, and that you may only have a few seconds of 
their attention to make a favourable impression. The quality of this 
document and of the accompanying application letter and personal 
statement are vital for successful job-hunting. Typically, a recruiter will 
use the following criteria to evaluate your CV:
●
●Good presentation. They’ll want to see clear layout that makes it 
easy to find the information they want to see and possibly signs that 
you can express yourself fluently and have some design flair.
●
●Lack of obvious mistakes. Employers will not think highly of CVs 
Vitae
A good source of independent advice is the Vitae website 
(http://www.vitae.ac.uk/). This organisation exists to champion ‘the 
personal, professional and career development of doctoral researchers 
and research staff in higher education institutions and research 
institutes’ (Ch 5). Its excellent website includes sections on:
■
■managing your career;
■
■working in higher education;
■
■career opportunities outside higher education;
■
■research versus non-research careers;
■
■working overseas;
■
■employment by discipline.
✔
33  After your doctorate 
397
containing spelling errors or grammatical mistakes. They’ll think you 
may bring such sloppiness to their job.
●
●Professional qualifications and expertise. Specialist recruiters will be 
looking for key information about your field of expertise and this can 
take the form of a very brief outline of your doctoral topic. You may 
need to rework this for different applications so that your application 
is relevant to specific posts.
●
●Fitness for the post. They’ll expect to see from the content that you 
would be a good fit to the job description. They’ll need sufficient 
detail to determine this, but at the same time not too many facts of 
doubtful relevance that might waste their time and call into doubt 
your ability to evaluate and filter information.
●
●Honesty. They will demand full information and frankness about 
personal qualities and skills. If there is an obvious mismatch 
between your CV claims and your references, university transcript or 
interview performance, this will count severely against you.
●
●Character. They will want to see evidence that you would make an 
interesting and stimulating colleague. They will not want to see yet 
another clichéd CV produced by one of the common templates.
●
●Added value. They’ll hope that you have qualities and skills 
additional to the ones in the job description. Since there may be 
many applicants with similar qualifications, this may mark you out 
from the crowd.
●
●Evidence and examples. They will want some means of confirming 
that the claims you make are valid. This may come from your 
referees or university transcript, but you should also mention reports, 
talks or other things you have done. They may ask you about these 
at interview.
●
●Completeness. They will expect your CV to be right up-to-date. Also 
they’ll look for periods where you do not appear to have been doing 
anything – and ask you about these at interview. 
Initial impressions count
The presentation of your CV is the first thing a potential employer 
notices. Aspects such as quality of paper and print are important, 
but the document’s design and the clarity of wording will be the most 
important factors. As these will be taken as an indication of your 
character, you should think about them very carefully.
✔
398 
Examination and beyond
Seven basic elements of a typical UK-style CV are described in Table 
33.1. Most CVs will include all of these sections, but you may choose 
to use different titles for the headings and to include appropriate 
amounts of information, as suits the job specification. Of course, 
because you are a unique person, the precise details will be your own. 
Your CV should be brief and to the point and appropriately balanced. 
Aim for about two to three A4 pages and emphasise sections using 
headings. Sometimes you will be expected to fill in a form instead 
of supplying a CV. This aids the initial screening of applicants and 
is common where an employer regularly takes on large numbers of 
starters. Where a format is specified by an employer, make sure you 
comply with it.
Online and hard copy application forms
Employers are increasingly making use of automated packages to 
harvest applications. It is very easy to click the ‘send’ button and 
immediately forget what you entered on the electronic form or even 
what the job was. Similarly, hard copy forms may be sent off without 
any record of what you wrote. To avoid embarrassment, keep a record 
of applications you make and what you entered on the form. Electronic 
versions can be recorded by using the keyboard Print Screen function 
or you can prepare and file these using a word processor. Should you 
be fortunate and find that your application is taken further, then you 
will be able to review what you wrote on your applications so that you 
follow through consistently with this at interview.
✔
When using your CV to make an application for a job, it is vital that you 
tailor it to the job specification, so that you bring out the match with 
your qualifications, experience, skills and personality. You will often find 
a brief job description within the job advert or associated web-based 
material, or this may be provided as part of an application pack. For 
each position you should carry out a mapping exercise between the 
key elements of the job description and your own. This should take into 
account the following:
●
●The minimum qualifications and skills required. If you don’t have 
these, it will probably not be worth applying.
●
●The specific experience, competences and qualities required. 
Importantly, present evidence that shows that you have these.
33  After your doctorate 
399
Table 33.1  Elements of a typical CV.
Element, with 
alternative headings
Usual contents
1  Personal details
Name and contact 
details
Your full name, date of birth, contact address(es), contact 
phone/mobile numbers and email address. You don’t have 
to include your sex, but may wish to, especially if your 
name could apply to a man or a woman.
2  Profile
Career aim; Career 
objective; Personal 
profile
A summary of your career plans. Aspects of your goals 
and aspirations that you would like the employer to focus 
on. Your key attributes/strengths in the context of the 
post.
3  Education
Qualifications; 
Education and 
qualifications
The qualifications you have already achieved including 
those that may be pending. Most people put current 
qualifications first, and then work backwards. State 
educational institutions, years of attendance and the 
academic year in which each qualification or set of 
qualifications was gained. Include more detail if it is 
relevant, e.g. aspects of a subject covered in courses. 
Give the title of your PhD, even if provisional.
4  Work experience
Employment
Details of past and current work (both paid and voluntary). 
Include dates, employer’s name and job title. You may 
also wish to add major duties if these are not obvious 
from the job title. Also include contributions to collegiate 
and departmental work as these community contributions 
can involve a variety of relevant skills. These work 
experiences should be arranged in reverse time sequence 
– from present to past.
5  Skills and 
personal qualities
Skills and 
achievements; Skills 
and competences
An indication of the match between your abilities and the 
job description. You may wish to refer to examples and 
evidence here. 
6  Interests and 
activities
Interests; Leisure 
activities
This is a chance to show your character, and perhaps 
to indicate that you would make an interesting and 
enthusiastic colleague. Employers will use this section to 
build a picture of you as a person; however, they may be 
put off someone who appears quirky or bizarre. Also if this 
section is over-emphasised, they may assume that you 
have placed greater emphasis on your social life than on 
your studies. Choose interests which display potentially 
valuable aspects of your character, e.g. sports activities 
that indicate you are a good team member.
7  Referees
References
This is where you provide the names and contact details 
for those who have agreed to provide a reference for you. 
At least one of these should be an academic referee.
400 
Examination and beyond
●
●Anything beneficial you might add if you were appointed to the job, 
such as an IT or technical qualification gained in a particular module.
●
●Anything not stated in the job description, but implied, such as the 
ability to write or edit copy. 
Application letters
Your letter of application provides an additional chance to impress a 
potential employer. As with your CV, it should be well-presented and 
error-free. Use the normal format and style that you would for a formal 
business letter.
The content should include the following:
●
●both the name of the position you are applying for and any reference 
number that is given;
●
●the key qualifications, skills and qualities you feel you can offer;
●
●if possible, specific links between your CV and the job description;
●
●reference to your commitment and enthusiasm for the job;
●
●your career objectives and what you hope to gain from the job; and
●
●your contact details. 
Tips for CV presentation
There are no hard and fast rules, but the following may help:
■
■Don’t try to cram too much into your CV – the reader can only 
absorb the key points. They can always ask you more if they select 
you for interview.
■
■Avoid long paragraphs in favour of bullet points, as these are 
assimilated more readily.
■
■Use ‘white space’ to spread out the information so it is easy to read 
and the design is pleasing to the eye and is more readable.
■
■Use a single font throughout and avoid over-use of emphasis such 
as capital letters, italics and bold.
■
■Limited use of colour can look attractive, for instance in 
headings, and might mark your CV out from the rest. Do not 
overdo this, however, or it will lessen the impact and give an 
unfocused feel. Remember that colours will appear in greyscale 
or may even disappear if your CV is photocopied for interview 
panel members and may in fact dull down your document rather 
than brighten it.
✔
33  After your doctorate 
401
Personal statements
For some posts, you will be asked to provide a personal statement, 
which is a chance to expand on some of the points noted above for 
a standard application letter. As with your CV and covering letter, a 
personal statement should be closely linked to the job for which you 
are applying. This is your chance to stand out from other, similarly 
qualified, candidates.
If a format or content is suggested, then follow this carefully, and in 
particular, cover as directly as possible any areas that are specified. 
Keep to any word limit that is given. Even if no limit is stated, write 
concisely and present things so that they can be easily assimilated, for 
example by using short paragraphs, headings and/or or bullet points.
Selecting referees
When you apply for any job, you will be expected to nominate at 
least two referees – people who know you and can comment on 
your character and suitability for the position. In choosing referees, 
select people who genuinely know you, and who can comment on 
different aspects of your CV. Typically, a postgraduate would pick 
one referee who knows about their undergraduate academic history, 
and one who can comment on their current PhD work (usually the 
supervisor).
You should contact your referees in advance to ask politely whether 
they would be willing to provide you with a reference; and at that time 
you could tell them about the specific position(s) you have applied for, 
or give them details of the sort of jobs you intend applying for. It is in 
your interest to provide your referees with an up-to-date CV as this will 
help them provide an effective reference. It is also good manners to let 
them know whether your application(s) were successful.
Use social networking sites to present your profile
Increasingly, postgraduates are by-passing agencies who specialise in 
recruiting for specialist posts in industry (with cost implications for the 
applicant and the prospective employer) by using social networking 
media such as LinkedIn (http://uk.linkedin.com/). This and similar 
sites give you the opportunity to post your CV and other details so that 
prospective employers can contact you directly.
✔
402 
Examination and beyond
Preparing for interview
Being short-listed for a post is an achievement, but many people find 
the subsequent interview stage even more of a challenge. As well 
as the fact that you will be expected to answer difficult and unseen 
questions, you will be nervous because your chances of getting a 
coveted post may depend on your performance. There are various 
ways in which you can prepare before an interview.
●
●Carry out some research on the company and organisation, and the 
key figures on the interview panel, if you know who they are.
●
●Look again at the job description and how you can demonstrate the 
ability to carry out the duties of the post.
●
●If the post is professional or technical, revise relevant theory, 
techniques, practice and law. Anticipate, as best you can, how your 
area of expertise might relate to the recruiting organisation.
●
●Note questions you may have about the organisation and post.
●
●Ensure you can answer some of the more common interview 
questions, and where these appear tricky, evolve strategies for 
providing a positive slant to your answer.
●
●Think carefully about appropriate dress for the interview.
At the interview itself, focus on the following: 
●
●When you are introduced to the panel, make eye contact with each 
member and smile at them.
●
●Where appropriate, give a firm, confident handshake.
●
●Adopt confident and relaxed body language and try not to fidget.
●
●Give informative answers of appropriate length – neither too short, 
nor too long; neither too shallow, nor too detailed.
●
●Speak clearly and to the person who asked the question, making 
occasional eye contact around the panel.
●
●Try to be positive about all questions and take all opportunities you 
can to mention relevant experiences.
●
●Be genuine, truthful and never waffle.
●
●Remember that the interview is a two-way process: be ready for the 
end of the interview, when applicants are traditionally asked whether 
they would like to ask any questions.
Good luck!
33  After your doctorate 
403
What will they ask me?
Here are some traditional interview questions – note that these may 
be wrapped in subtly different phrasing, or specifically related to the 
organisation and job description:
■
■What attracted you to this post?
■
■What makes you think you are the right person for this job?
■
■How did your degree and/or work experience prepare you for the 
challenges of this job?
■
■Please tell me about your experience doing X. . .
■
■Tell me about your interest in [a hobby or pastime]. . .
■
■What are your strengths?
■
■What are your weaknesses?
■
■What would you do if you held this post and the following scenario 
occurred. . .?
■
■How do you see your career here evolving?
■
■Could you tell me about. . .? [Techniques, procedures or legislation 
related to the role.]
■
■When would you be able to take up the post, if offered it?
■
■Seemingly ‘off-the-wall’ questions, such as ‘Do you keep a tidy or 
an untidy desk?’
■
■Would you accept the post if offered and, if so, what salary are you 
looking for?
■
■Do you have any questions for us?
?
Action points
33.1  Visit and explore on the Vitae website 
(http://www.vitae.ac.uk). This site is an extremely valuable 
resource and specifically targeted at doctoral students. It is 
managed by CRAC, the Careers Research and Advisory Centre.
33.2  Update your CV. Take full account of all the skills you 
have developed during your PhD including technical, teaching, 
teamwork, organisational and other competences.
404 
Examination and beyond
33.3  Discuss your draft CV and careers prospects with a 
university careers advisor. They will be pleased to comment on 
its structure and content, and will be able to give advice about 
ways you might develop it in relation to your career goals and 
subject area.
List of References 
405
List of References
Belbin®, 2012. Team roles. Available at: http://www.belbin.com/ [Accessed 
1 August 2012].
Bloom, B. S., Englehart, M. D., Furst, E. J., Holl, W. H. and Krathwohl, D. 
R., 1956. Taxonomy of educational objectives: cognitive domain. New 
York: McKay.
Careers Research and Advisory Centre, 2010. Researcher development 
statement. Available at: http://www.vitae.ac.uk/CMS/files/upload/
Researcher%20development%20statement.pdf [Accessed 23 July 2012].
Careers Research and Advisory Centre, 2012. Planning your training. 
Available at: http://www.vitae.ac.uk/researchers/1607/Planning-your-
training.html [Accessed 23 July 2012].
CILIP, 2012. Chartered Institute of Library and Information Professionals: 
Information literacy: definition. Available at: http://www.cilip.org.uk/
get-involved/advocacy/information-literacy/Pages/definition.aspx 
[Accessed 23 July 2012].
Cohen L., Manion, L. and Morrison, K., 2007. Research methods in 
education, 6th ed. London: Routledge-Falmer.
Crozier, J. and Gilmour, L., 2006. Collin’s A–Z thesaurus, 2nd ed. London: 
Harper Collins.
Denzin, N. and Lincoln Y., eds., 2005. The Sage handbook of qualitative 
research, 3rd ed. London: Sage.
Krueger, R. A. and Casey, M. A., 2000. Focus groups: a practical guide for 
applied research, 3rd ed. Thousand Oaks, California: Sage Publications.
Leech, G., Conrad, S., Cruickshank, B. and Ivanic, R., 2001. An A–Z of 
English grammar and usage, 2nd ed. Harlow: Pearson Longman.
McMillan, K. M. and Weyers, J. D. B., 2012. The study skills book, 3rd ed. 
Harlow: Pearson Education.
McMillan, K. M. and Weyers, J. D. B., 2013. How to cite, reference and 
avoid plagiarism at university. Harlow: Pearson Education.
Ritter, R. M., 2005. New Hart’s rules: the handbook of style for writers and 
editors. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Robson, C., 2011. Real world research, 3rd ed. New York: John Wiley.
Sana, L., 2000. Textbook of research ethics: theory and practice. New York: 
Kluwer Academic.
406 
List of References
SCONUL, 2011. Society of College, National and University Libraries: The 
Seven Pillars of Information Literacy model. Available at: http://www.
sconul.ac.uk/groups/information_literacy/sp/moel.htiml [Accessed 23 
July 2012].
Shamoo, A. E. and Resnik, D. B., 2009. Responsible conduct of research, 
2nd ed. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Stevenson, A., ed., 2007. Shorter Oxford English dictionary, 6th ed. Oxford: 
Oxford University Press.
Strauss, A. and Corbin, J., 2007. Basics of qualitative research: techniques 
and procedures for developing grounded theory, 3rd ed. London: Sage.
UK Research Councils, 2001. Joint statement of the training requirements 
for research students. Available at: http://www.vitae.ac.uk/cms/files/
RCUK-Joint-Skills-Statement-2001.pdf [Accessed 23 July 2012].
