Praise for PhDone 
“PhDone is a friendly and thorough guide to living productively 
through the dissertation-writing process. 
Roda, Saunders, and 
Anderson have cracked the sometimes mysterious pathways from 
start to finish of choosing topics, advisors, committees and what one 
can reasonably expect. That writing a dissertation is ‘a job,’ as they 
advise, is surely the key to completing and living through one of the 
most significant achievements one can imagine.” 
—Dr. Fred Myers, Silver Professor of Anthropology, 
New York University 
“As one who has directed a writing center for years, I say with confi- 
dence that this book offers a great deal of essential advice. Presenting 
the whole graduate school experience as preparation for the project 
of the dissertation, PhDone will help many begin the process when 
they should, long before the writing itself is underway. Wise, savvy, 
and extensive—a very valuable resource.” 
—Dr. Brian Glaser, Associate Professor and former 
Writing Center Director, Chapman University . 
“Navigating one’s way through a doctoral program is a journey 
fraught with bureaucratic hurdles, interpersonal relationship traps, 
self-doubt, and worse. Reaching the destination—a successfully 
defended dissertation—requires intelligence, political savvy, a cer- 
tain degree of masochism and, above all, perseverance. PhDone will 
be of use to any student entering a doctoral program as the volume 
provides practical information regarding not just how to go about 
writing a dissertation, but also how to manage just about every con- 
ceivable obstacle one might encounter while advancing through the 
many stages of a doctoral program. I will certainly recommend it to 
my few remaining advisees as they write their dissertations. 
—Dr. Stephen Slawek, Professor Emeritus of Ethnomusicology, 
the University of Texas at Austin 
“PhDone offers clear, step-by-step advice for dissertation writers, 
with real-world anecdotes as well as details that are decidedly up-to- 
date, explaining what you need to know about academia now. The 
— 
writing process isn’t easy for anyone, but having a thoughtful guide 
like this can remove some of the mystery and stress.” 
—Dr. Benjamin Tausig, Associate Professor of Critical Music 
Studies, Stonybrook University 
“Writing a dissertation is daunting, even for the most accomplished 
students. PhDone includes excellent advice, and its many examples 
prove that no obstacle a student might confront is unique: from the 
difficulty of delineating a topic to political problems with a commit- 
tee. PhDone is a charming and useful guide for anyone considering 
or working on a PhD.” 
—Dr. Richard Ruppel, Professor of English and Peace Studies; 
Director, General Education Program, Chapman University 
“JT wish I’d had this when I was working on my own dissertation! An 
invaluable guide to the ins and outs and do’s and don’ts of finishing 
your PhD thesis and getting your degree. I’m definitely going to share 
it with my own students.” 
—Dr. Michael Beckerman, Carroll and Milton Petrie Professor of 
Music, Collegiate Professor of Music, New York University 
“PhDone offers graduate students and faculty advisors a navigable 
route through the entire dissertation process from the initial research 
stage to the dissertation defense and beyond to publication. Highly 
readable and fortified by case studies, it is an essential companion for 
both social science and humanities scholars.” 
—Dr. Eleanor McNees, Professor Emerita, 
University of Denver 
“PhDone is a thorough but approachable introduction to what you 
need to expect from the process of completing a dissertation. As I tell 
my students, you need to minimize unexpected hurdles. This book 
can help.” 
—Dr. Darren Linville, Associate Professor of 
Communication, Clemson University 
“Everyone who has ever worked on a doctoral degree knows the ups, 
downs, concerns, and anxieties of completing the dissertation. Roda, 
Saunders, and Anderson offer an illuminating and fundamentally 
helpful guide toward PhD completion. Most every grad student I’ve 
ever known could have used this!” 
—Dr. David Gilbert, Assistant Professor of 
History, Mars Hill College 
“This book is perfect for anyone considering grad school. It’s laid 
out very practically and goes through all of the steps and stages of 
the process. Writing a dissertation is a daunting task, and this is the 
perfect book to help students know what to expect and how to nav- 
igate that process.” 
—Dr. Kristin Bledsoe, Dean, School of Leadership and 
Interdisciplinary Studies, Trevecca 
“PhDone: A Professional Dissertation Editor’s Guide to Writing 
Your Doctoral Thesis and Earning your PhD is an immensely help- 
ful tool to help students navigate their pathway to a PhD. For any- 
one, these are stressful moments and having this book helps make 
sure submissions are well organized and error-free! THANK YOU 
SO MUCH! I am proud to be using this book at Coastal Carolina 
University!” 
—Benjamin Sota, Associate Professor of Theatre, 
Coastal Carolina University 
“PhDone is an invaluable resource for anyone navigating the chal- 
lenging journey of writing and publishing a dissertation. With a 
no-nonsense approach, the authors provide comprehensive guidance, 
covering every crucial aspect of the process. From understanding 
what a dissertation entails to selecting a committee, crafting a writ- 
ing strategy, collecting and analyzing data, and ultimately defending 
and publishing your dissertation, this book leaves no stone unturned. 
I certainly wish I had this on my shelf when I was in the thick of 
it! PhDone will undoubtedly become a staple reference for anyone 
pursuing their PhD. In a world where unfinished dissertations haunt 
countless graduate students, PhDone shines as the beacon of hope 
and guidance. It equips you with the tools and wisdom to proudly 
declare, ‘I am PhDone!’” 
2 
. 
—Dr. Tony Dumas, Associate Director of 
Delta College, SUNY Brockport _ 
“This practical guide contextualizes the entire dissertation-writ- 
ing process, from writing the proposal to organizing, editing, and 
even publishing the dissertation after graduation. By emphasizing 
approaches to writing based on one’s career goals—whether those 
are in or beyond academia—this book will help readers complete 
their dissertations promptly while honing lifelong skills for pro- 
fessional success in diverse fields. As a writing professor who has 
supported PhD students across the disciplines, I highly recommend 
this book for anyone starting or in the process of working on their 
dissertation.” 
—Dr. Sarah Hart Micke, Teaching Professor, Writing Program, 
University of Denver 
“PhDone is a book I wish was available when I was in the disserta- 
tion stage of my own academic life. It is informational, motivational, 
and insightful. PhDone will help doctoral students negotiate the dis- 
sertation, a most challenging part of the process. Plus, the prose is 
engaging, making the book enjoyable as well as useful. I have already 
recommended PhDone to a student in the dissertation proposal part 
of their program. I will definitely recommend it to my colleagues and 
doctoral students with whom I work.” 
—Dr. Jan Osborn, Associate Professor, Rhetoric 
& Composition Studies, Chapman University 
“T’d recommend this to any of my students considering grad school.” 
—Sharon Andrews, Professor of Theatre, 
Wake Forest University 
“This breezily written book helps demystify the ‘hidden curriculum’ 
around completing a PhD dissertation. It will be especially helpful 
to social scientists, and PhD hopefuls in the humanities and other 
sciences will also find much of great use here.” 
—Dr. Anna Stirr, Associate Professor of Asian Studies, 
University of Hawaii 
“This is a must-read for new PhD students or those who are near- 
ing the dissertation stage of their-journey. The practical guidance 
~ 
is invaluable, and the personal anecdotes bring life and reality into 
the seemingly daunting task. For students with little institutional 
support, this book could be a life saver; for those with ample sup- 
port, it will reinforce university practices and guidelines. This up-to- 
date guide addresses things that other handbooks do not, like the 
work-life balance aspect that all graduate students need, especially in 
a time of constant distractions.” 
—Dr. Lynda Hall, Associate Professor, 
Chapman University 
“I wish I had access to a book like this while I was in grad school! 
PhDone offers essential advice for anyone making their way through 
graduate school and the dissertation-writing process. Assembled by a 
team of experienced editors, this volume contains invaluable insights 
on some of the most challenging aspects of dissertation completion, 
including dealing with challenging advisors, formulating a research 
question, identifying one’s own writing style, facing writing stalls, 
and balancing real life and relationships. Sections on methodology 
and dissertation organization will be especially relevant for those in 
the sciences and social sciences, however the book contains a rich 
collection of dissertation survival strategies, delivered in an easy-to- 
read and empathetic way, that will benefit graduate students in any 
° 
field of study.” 
—Dr. Charlotte D’Evelyn, Assistant Professor, 
Skidmore College Music Department 
“This well-organized book captures every aspect of the dissertation 
process including advice related to work-life balance, the logistics of 
the dissertation process, and what to do when you're finally done. It 
provides thoughtful insight from those who have been on this jour- 
ney before in a way that can help you navigate this process yourself, 
regardless of what area of study you are in. The writing is approach- 
able and graduate students would benefit from heeding their advice.” 
—Dr. Courtney Baker, Assistant Professor, 
Eastern Carolina University 
“Dr. Roda has been supporting doctoral students on their journeys 
for many years, and I am delighted to see this wisdom now encapsu- 
lated in a book to be more widely accessible.” 
—Dr. Lindsay Stark, Associate Dean for Global Strategy 
and Programs, Washington University in St. Louis 
“Most books in this genre feel theoretical, offering an unachievable 
ideal for completing one’s thesis. But this excellent alternative from 
Roda, Saunders, and Anderson is practical, honest, and truly helpful. 
They’ve directly coached over 3,000 real people toward earning their 
PhDs and it shows on every page.” 
—Andrew P. Jones, Professor of the Practice, UNC Kenan-Flagler 
Business School; Research Affiliate, MIT Sloan School 
of Management; Executive Director, Climate Interactive 
“J highly recommend PhDone: A Professional Dissertation Editor’s 
Guide to Writing Your Doctoral Thesis and Earning your PhD to 
anyone contemplating a PhD program or already in one but needing 
some extra help navigating the process.” 
—Dr. Anne-Marie Pederson, Former Writing 
Center Director, Chapman University 
PHDONE 
A PROFESSIONAL DISSERTATION 
EDITOR’S GUIDE TO WRITING 
YOUR DOCTORAL THESIS AND 
EARNING YOUR PHD 
BY 
DR. ALLEN RODA 
CEO and Editor-in-Chief 
DISSERTATION EDITOR 
DR. LAUREN SAUNDERS 
VP of Editing and Research 
DISSERTATION EDITOR 
with KEVIN ANDERSON 
FOUNDER 
DISSERTATION EDITOR 
Skyhorse Publishing 
Copyright © 2023 by Allen Roda and Lauren Saunders with Kevin Anderson 
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced in any manner 
without the express written consent of the publisher, except in the case of brief 
excerpts in critical reviews or articles. All inquiries should be addressed to 
Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, New York, 
NY 10018. 
Skyhorse Publishing books may be purchased in bulk at special discounts for 
sales promotion, corporate gifts, fund-raising, or educational purposes. Special 
editions can also be created to specifications. For details, contact the Special 
Sales Department, Skyhorse Publishing, 307 West 36th Street, 11th Floor, 
New York, NY 10018 or info@skyhorsepublishing.com. 
Skyhorse® and Skyhorse Publishing® are registered trademarks of Skyhorse 
Publishing, Inc.®, a Delaware corporation. 
Visit our website at www.skyhorsepublishing.com. 
1098765432 
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data is available on file. 
Cover design by David Ter-Avanesyan 
Cover photo credit Shutterstock 
ISBN: 978-1-5107-7853-5 
Ebook ISBN: 978-1-5107-7865-8 
Printed in the United States of America 
Contents 
Preface 
Introduction 
Chapter 1: 
First Things First: What Is a Dissertation Anyway? 
Dissertation Process Overview 
Choosing a Dissertation Topic 
Chapter 2: 
The Balancing Act: How to Juggle Your Life 
and Your Work 
Treat Writing Your Dissertation as Your Job 
Take a Clear and Realistic Look at Your 
Existing Tendencies and Problems 
Know All Your Resources and Use Them 
Should I Go to the Writing Center, 
or Should I Hire an Editor? 
Boundaries Are Key 
Chapter 3: 
Picking Your Team: The Dissertation Committee 
and the Advisor-Advisee Relationship 
The Dissertation Committee 
1 
Ld 
29) 
31 
33 
34 
36 
41 
41 
Your Dissertation Advisor 
45 
Outside Committee Members or Readers 
Can Improve Your Dissertation 
a2 
Chapter 4: 
The Write Approach to Crafting Your Dissertation 
63 
The Importance of Playing to Your Strengths 
63 
Think Outside the Box (or the Outline) 
65 
Recommended Reading 
66 
Other Kinds of Graduate School Writing 
70 
Plagiarism 
80 
Writer’s Block 
86 
Chapter 5: 
Off the Starting Blocks: How to Begin Your 
Dissertation 
ot 
Dissertation Organization 
22 
Writing Your Abstract 
96 
Writing Your Introduction 
98 
Writing the Literature Review 
100 
Chapter 6: 
Data: How to Get It, How to Analyze It, 
How to Present It 
Be) 
Research Questions 
115 
Alignment 
118 
What Is the Difference Between Qualitative 
and Quantitative Methodology? 
119 
Changing Methodologies 
. 
121 
Hypotheses 
124 
Analysis Planning 
126 
Writing Your Methodology Chapter 
132; 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) 
133 
Writing Your Results 
136 
Writing Your Discussion Section 
Writing Your Conclusion 
Adding Visual Aids to Your Dissertation 
Academic Styles: Citations, References, 
Footnotes, and Endnotes 
Chapter 7: 
Final Hurdles: Completing and Defending 
Your Dissertation 
Editing and Revisions 
Dissertation Defense Preparation 
Submitting Your Dissertation to ProQuest 
Chapter 8: 
Where Do You Go From Here? 
Publishing Your Research 
Converting Your Dissertation (Or Part of It) 
Into a Journal Article 
Conclusion: PhDone 
References 
Acknowledgments 
About the Authors 
138 
139 
141 
146 
153 
153 
163 
172 
175 
175 
184 
189 
191 
193 
195 
Preface 
People often ask me how and why I launched a service to help 
doctoral students through their dissertation writing process. 
The fact is that it was never my intention, initially, and I really 
didn’t know much about the dissertation process at all. 
While completing my master’s at Harvard, intending to 
continue on through my PhD, I started a small tutoring and_ 
academic consultation service. Naturally, [hired many of my 
Harvard colleagues, most of whom had just finished or were in 
the process of completing their dissertations. Of all the inquiries 
we received, none were more frequent or desperate than those 
from PhD students—and these queries came in from all over 
the United States and Canada. With so many overloaded advi- 
sors, the rise in online doctoral programs (many of which offer 
very little guidance to their students, while requiring flawless 
style formatting and rigorous statistical analysis), and the gen- 
eral stress and pressure that comes with writing a dissertation, it 
became very clear very early that people needed help. And not just 
any help, but help from experts who had advised PhD students 
before and, importantly, understood exactly what they were 
going through. So, in 2014, Dissertation Editor—a company 
XV 
XVI 
PHDONE 
whose entire staff had undergone and ‘successfully completed 
the PhD process—was launched to serve this need. 
We’ve now worked with thousands of PhD students, across 
a wide range of academic fields and from all types of academic 
institutions. In many cases, doctoral students need much more 
support than they can access. Even in the best cases, where a 
dissertation writer has a great committee, a supportive advisor, 
a collaborative cohort, and understanding family and friends, 
the process of completing a doctoral degree is tremendously dif- 
ficult. To meet the need for this writing support, we’ve made it 
our mission to meet the writer exactly where they are in the dis- 
sertation process and tailor our services to the areas with which 
they most need assistance. 
Most of the needs and pain points we’ve encountered over 
the years are addressed in this book, including coaching writers 
on topic selection and outlining; providing research assistance 
support for literature reviews; running statistical analyses; 
providing feedback on the flow and argument of results and 
discussion sections; editing and proofreading; citation support; 
tables and figures; manuscript formatting; and defense prepara- 
tion. While the process and individual needs may look different 
for each student, most PhD candidates struggle with a similar 
range of issues. Even when comparing wildly different topics, 
the dissertation itself has many of the same goals and require- 
ments. When writers look at the dissertation as a collection of 
specific, clear-cut parts rather than a massive project, it’s much 
easier to progress toward completion. 
In serving our clients’ editorial and statistical needs, we’ve 
heard countless candid reflections on a range of challenges that 
go beyond the dissertation paper but have a direct impact on 
successfully writing it. Work-life balance, departmental politics, 
PREFACE 
XVII 
and advisor relationships are just a few of the many additional 
challenges PhD candidates face. While people tend to feel that 
they’re the only ones struggling with these types of issues, we 
hear these stories time and again and feel it’s important to share 
anecdotes that will help dissertation writers learn from both the 
mistakes and triumphs of others—and hopefully feel less alone. 
The dissertation process has always been difficult. Changes 
to higher education and the world in general have made parts 
of it even more challenging. The student-as-consumer model 
many universities have adopted means that requiring students 
to take the same dissertation module more than once can 
benefit the institution financially. To make things worse, the 
trend of hiring for adjunct positions instead of tenure-track 
jobs has increased the workload of many dissertation supervi- 
sors—meaning that they often have less time to shepherd their 
advisees through the process. The rise of AI makes research, ’ 
plagiarism, and questions of intellectual property and author- 
ship increasingly complicated. The uptick in remote work and 
asynchronous learning post-pandemic can increase the sense of 
isolation a PhD candidate already experiences. Despite these 
hurdles, we know from our vast experience in working with all 
kinds of doctoral students from across the continent, that, with 
a little support, direction, and guidance, 
all students can com- 
plete their dissertation and earn their much-deserved degree. 
Not everyone can afford a professional tutor or editor to help 
them, but most can afford this book—a book we hope helps 
thousands more students graduate and be PhDone. 
—Kevin Anderson, MA 
Introduction 
Allen had a summer internship while he was in graduate school 
at NYU. His boss at the time was approaching retirement at 
the end of a successful 35-year career. And yet, he still thought 
often about how much he regretted the fact that he was ABD (all 
but dissertation) in his graduate program. You can finish your 
coursework with flying colors, but you can’t be PhDone until | 
your dissertation has been approved. 
The Director of Graduate 
Studies in Lauren’s English Department at the University of 
Denver famously told all her students: “There are only two 
types of dissertations—the ones that are done and the ones 
that aren’t.” Both of these experiences illustrate a key piece of 
knowledge we’ve learned over the years and continue to share 
with the thousands of doctoral students we’ve worked with at 
our company, Dissertation Editor: a dissertation can never be 
perfect, and the drive for perfection can be a major hindrance 
to completion; however, once your dissertation has been sub- 
mitted and approved, it can be done. Writing a dissertation is 
an arduous task. It is a rite of passage from student to scholar, 
and a major life event for those who begin this journey. While 
it can, at times, feel daunting and never-ending, knowing what 
to expect and breaking the dissertation journey down into 
— 
2 
PhDONE 
clear, manageable steps can help you to even enjoy the process 
(at least as much as possible) and, most importantly, complete it. 
A dissertation is an important and unique endeavor that all 
would-be PhDs are required to produce. And, for the rest of 
your academic career, your dissertation will likely function as 
the key piece of proof that you have met the core requirement 
of obtaining a doctoral degree: contributing something original 
to your field of study. Whether based on scientific experiments, 
social science study, the production of artistic work, or analysis 
of existing texts, your dissertation is a written document that 
shows off the new thing you’ve discovered. 
What if you’ve discovered something critical to your field 
but don’t know how to put it into words? If that’s the case, 
you're in very good company. Even for the very few disserta- 
tion writers who have already produced an extended piece of 
writing (an undergraduate capstone paper, master’s thesis, or 
even a novel), the genre of the doctoral dissertation is also com- 
pletely new to them. Not to mention that it must be written 
while navigating the many challenges of graduate study and, 
of course, while continuing to live your life, pay the bills, take 
care of the kids, maintain your relationships, and care for your 
mental and physical health, etc., etc. No matter the challenges, 
the dissertation must be completed before you walk across a 
stage in an objectively outrageous but somehow incredibly dis- 
tinguished outfit called “regalia” or hear your name called via 
videoconferencing software then receive an embossed piece 
of paper in the mail 6-8 weeks later. Either way, a disserta- 
tion must be finished and approved before you can ask your 
friends, family, and eyebrow waxer to refer to you as “doctor.” 
Finishing a dissertation is the Mount Everest of academic 
achievement. Like many great but difficult things in life, the 
INTRODUCTION 
3 
journey involved is as key as the completed product. It is our 
hope that the tools and anecdotes in this book will help you find 
ways to enjoy the process and achieve it in a reasonable amount 
of time. Even if a dissertation is a means to the end of achieving 
a doctoral degree, in our opinion it’s a worthwhile endeavor in 
its own right. Even if you subsequently decide to enter a field 
outside of academia, and only your committee, editor, you, 
and (maybe) a few close friends or family members ever read 
your dissertation, it is still proof that you have added to existing 
knowledge, and that is something worth celebrating (or giving 
pride of place on your bookshelf). Better yet, as discussed in 
detail later in this book, every dissertation is worth sharing 
with the world in the form of a book, article, or other medium. 
From our experience helping thousands of students complete 
their dissertations, there are two keys to navigating the challenge 
of writing a dissertation. First, remember your main goal in dis-’ 
sertation writing is completion. If you remember that perfection 
is not obtainable, but that you are nonetheless in the process of 
contributing to human knowledge, that can make the journey 
feel achievable and enjoyable. Focusing on completion can help 
you avoid traps like research rabbit holes, unnecessary changes 
of direction, trying to write exhaustively on your subject, and 
interminable tinkering long past the point of completion. 
This leads to our second, and more tangible, key to dis- 
sertation completion success. This is preparing for the process, 
including the obstacles you might encounter as you work. 
Challenges are inevitable, but if you know what to expect and 
prepare for the issues that commonly arise, they won’t become 
stumbling blocks. Preparing for the steps in the process and the 
obstacles you might encounter will allow you to move contin- 
ually forward through the process rather than getting stuck. 
4 
PhDONE 
We’ve met with countless students who have written 20-, 30-, 
or 40-page chapters only to have their dissertation director tell 
them nothing was salvageable—they would have to delete all 
their work and start from ground zero. While avoiding that sit- 
uation in the first place is of course the goal, what is much more 
important is your reaction and the next steps should an obstacle 
like that present itself. 
Potential obstacles to completing a dissertation come in 
external and internal forms. As you read this book, yeu will be 
able to prepare for the external challenges that can add extra 
stress, like finding an outside committee member or preparing 
for the defense. You will also have the space to predict internal 
obstacles that might come up. Perhaps you have always had a 
difficult time switching off from work and closing your com- 
puter at night. What about finding ways to write when you just 
emotionally can’t handle more dissertating? If you anticipate 
that these sorts of things will occur during your dissertation 
(they will), you can develop strategies in advance to overcome 
internal issues. Both external and internal obstacles are inevi- 
table, but with preparation, you can ensure that you are able to 
navigate the challenges that come up and can prevent behaviors 
that amplify the inherent difficulty of writing a dissertation. As 
dissertation writers, we have enough to contend with without 
getting in our own way as well. 
That’s where this book comes in. Having worked with 
countless students struggling with their dissertations over the 
years, we discovered common themes in the various challenges 
they have faced. Out of those experiences, we developed this 
guide for students, which contains both practical advice for 
_ breaking down the dissertation process and real-life examples 
of the obstacles dissertation writers encounter (as well as those 
INTRODUCTION 
5 
obstacles they create for themselves). While the names have 
been changed, the stories in the pages that follow are from real 
dissertation writers who have either overcome or succumbed 
to the challenges you are about to face as you undertake the 
dissertation writing process. Some of these stories function as 
cautionary tales—what not to do. Some work as examples of 
strategies to emulate, and others are drifting somewhere in the 
limbo between what to do and what not to do. However, all of 
them are designed to allow you to benefit from the wisdom of 
those who have already been through the dissertorial fire. 
Chapter 1 covers what your dissertation entails, recommen- 
dations for how to choose a topic, and an overview of the process. 
Chapter 2 turns to the topic of work-life balance, including treating 
your dissertation as a job, setting up your space and schedule for 
success, and navigating your relationships during the process. 
Chapter 3 addresses dissertation committees and how to navigate’ 
the weird waters of the advisor-advisee relationship. Chapter 4 
provides writing tips and resources that will give you the founda- 
tion for doing the hard but rewarding work of dissertation writing. 
Next, let’s shift toward unpacking the nuts and bolts of the 
dissertation. What is it? What are its component parts? Chapter 5 
provides the information you'll need to start the dissertation, 
including organizational structures, abstract, introduction, and 
the research/literature review process. Chapter 6, on method- 
ology, research, and results, discusses how to develop research 
questions, conduct research, obtain IRB approval, and write 
the results and conclusion. Chapter 7 addresses the process of 
finishing your dissertation, including revision and editing, dis- 
sertation defense, and final submission. Chapter 8 considers next 
steps: converting your dissertation into a book or article and 
packaging your doctoral skills in a resume or in a cover letter. 
CHAPTER 1 
First Things First: What Is a 
Dissertation Anyway? 
Simply put, your dissertation is the written representation of . 
the unique contribution to knowledge you’ve achieved through- 
out your research process. Common across all areas of study, 
one of the main things receiving a doctorate means is that you 
haven’t only absorbed existing knowledge in your field, but 
have also added something to it. Congratulations: You’re in the 
process of contributing to human knowledge! In the humani- 
ties, this might mean that you’ve looked at an existing docu- 
ment in a way that no one has before, and your dissertation 
describes how and why you did so, and what important ele- 
ments you found. In research-based courses of study, disserta- 
tions report the results of studies or experiments no one had 
ever conducted before you came along. 
In a more practical sense, the dissertation is the key mile- 
stone you must meet before being awarded a doctoral degree. 
Most PhD programs in the United States comprise course- 
work during which you must take certain classes and meet 
7 
8 
PhDONE 
certain requirements (i.e., a methodology class or a language 
competency exam), comprehensive exams, and the disserta- 
tion. Some programs, and especially doctoral degrees obtained 
abroad, often omit the coursework and sometimes the exams 
entirely, and treat the dissertation as the only tangible metric 
for awarding the terminal degree. In any case, the dissertation 
is the final and most significant piece of work anyone hoping to 
obtain a doctoral degree must accomplish. 
Your dissertation is crucial to your job prospects within 
academia. First, your dissertation is your most specific qualifi- 
cation as to the aspect of your field in which you are an expert. 
It determines which job postings and grants you're eligible to 
apply for. Second, you may have heard the slightly melodra- 
matic but fairly accurate phrase: “publish or perish.” The most 
important element that differentiates candidates in an academic 
job search, particularly for tenure-line appointments, is their 
publication record. Publications are an essential requirement for 
entry into a tenure-track job in academia. Later in this book, we 
address the topic of turning your dissertation into a book and/ 
or article in detail, but before beginning the dissertation and 
during the writing process, it’s something to keep in mind. If 
you're able to turn your PhD dissertation into a scholarly mono- 
graph and place it with a reputable press, or to have one or more 
articles based on your dissertation accepted for publication with 
top journals, you’re much more likely to have success in the aca- 
demic job market. 
Even if you’re unsure whether you’d like to stay in aca- 
demia after completing your degree, your dissertation can still 
help you obtain a role outside of your academic field. Rather 
than targeting university presses and scholarly journals, you 
‘might consider converting your dissertation into a book for the 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
9 
consumer market or self-publishing it. Rather than academic 
articles, it might turn into Op-Ed pieces or a series of posts 
for your professional blog. Outside of the document itself, the 
process of completing it is, in itself, something that can give a 
job candidate an edge in many fields. Knowing how to con- 
duct original research and achieve something of a dissertation’s 
magnitude is appealing to many employers, and certainly has 
a place in your resume, cover letter, and interview for any role 
you decide to seek. 
Dissertation Process Overview 
All these topics will be covered in more detail in the next 
section of this book, but this section provides a brief overview 
of the general steps included in the dissertation process. 
Background Research and Topic Selection 
Selecting a topic is one of the first and most important steps 
in the dissertation journey. Topic selection requires thorough 
background research in your field to ensure that you’ve got 
an angle that hasn’t been addressed—or, at least, hasn’t been 
addressed well or hasn’t been addressed recently and could be 
revisited with a new perspective. Don’t get dismayed when you 
discover unlimited resources on the topic that you want to write 
about. Remember that a heavily covered topic can still have an 
original angle if you apply it to the specific needs and circum- 
stances of your region. You could also apply an old idea/theory 
to a new text or a new initiative. 
The bulk of your background research will be on the specific 
topics, theoretical/or conceptual frameworks, and methodolog- 
ical choices you’re in the process of selecting. Research librarians 
| 
10 
PhDONE 
can bea particularly great resource for this phase of the process. 
And, best of all, their services are free. You can either go to the 
library or go to your library’s web page to get professional assis- 
tance. Even a 15-minute session could help you uncover search 
strategies and resources that prove vital to your project. 
Background research also extends to the detective work you 
might do on your prospective advisor; for example, you might 
find-yourself reading books and articles prospective advisors 
and committee members have authored or provided oversight 
for as committee members. Even if they don’t quite relate to 
your field, they might provide insight into whose methodolo- 
gies and qualities as an academic and researcher best align with 
your own. This will help you see, in advance, which aspects of 
their work you’re interested in emulating and potential points of 
disconnect or contention between your writing style and theirs. 
Finally, you’ll want to read up on your university’s disserta- 
tion process and requirements. It’s time to dust off your graduate 
student handbook and make sure you know which forms need 
to be submitted when and to whom, and which requirements 
need to be met to keep the process going forward. Importantly, 
don’t trust your advisor to keep you on track with institutional 
bureaucracies. The graduate student handbook may not be on 
their personal reading list or may have changed since their last 
advisee completed their degree. 
Submitting the Prospectus and/or Proposal 
The next step in the process is submitting a dissertation pro- 
spectus and/or dissertation proposal. Usually, the prospectus 
provides a summary, literature review, and chapter breakdown, 
as well as clearly defining the significance of your research. 
A dissertation proposal tends to be much longer, comprising 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
11 
the first three chapters of a five-chapter dissertation (introduc- 
tion, literature review, and methodology). Your institution may 
require either or both, so be sure to check your graduate stu- 
dent handbook. In either case, this is the stage in the process 
during which you'll likely complete your literature review (or 
at least a portion of it), refine your hypotheses/research ques- 
tions, and decide on your theoretical/conceptual framework 
and methodology. 
Keep in mind that this process can feel like a difficult hurdle 
to overcome, and it can include a lot of back-and-forth discus- 
sions with your advisor. As an example, when Jo Ann began 
researching her dissertation topic, she wanted to write about 
informatics. But her advisor realized that Jo Ann was more 
enamored with the future-sounding term “informatics” than 
she was committed to the topic. With help from her advisor, Jo 
Ann was able to settle on a topic that was more in her—and her. 
advisor’s—expertise. 
ih 
By the end of the proposal process, you might feel as if you’ve 
written 27 different versions of each of your research questions 
with only infinitesimal differences between them. However, 
the proposal is crucial and should be considered the founda- 
tion and framework of the whole study. The more thoroughly 
you complete it, the easier the next stages of the process will 
be. The slight exception to this statement is the introduction. 
Never expect the first draft of your introduction to be the final 
version. Almost all dissertation writers substantially revise, or 
even totally rewrite, their introduction chapter after the rest of 
their dissertation is complete. When starting out, you'll write 
the introduction for the dissertation you intend to write, but 
once you've finished, you’ll go back and rewrite the introduc- 
tion for the dissertation you actually wrote. 
| 
12 
PhDONE 
Conducting Your Research 
Remember that well-thought-out and detailed framework 
you established in your proposal: that beautifully articulated 
road map for the research process you painstakingly revised 
and obtained approval on? Now, it’s time to follow it. Interview 
your participants, complete your survey, conduct your exper- 
iment, analyze your texts, observe your subjects, etc.—this is 
the part where you make the aforementioned contribution to 
knowledge. It’s difficult, yes, but for many, this is the most fun 
part. It’s where you get to buckle down and do the work that 
made you want to start a PhD program in the first place. 
Analyzing Your Results and Their Significance 
Depending on your field, the analysis process can involve 
running various statistical tests (discussed in the next sec- 
tion); reviewing the conclusions of your textual, historical, or 
ethnographic analysis; or defining codes and themes based on 
qualitative analysis. You’ll consider how your results compare 
to those of previous studies (particularly those included in your 
literature review), what future research and real-world implica- 
tions they have, and how they were expected or surprising. This 
is the part where you 1.) Figure out what your results are, create 
tables and figures to represent them, and write your results 
chapter and 2.) Figure out what your results mean, and why 
they are important, and write your discussion chapter. 
Revising Your Dissertation 
Great! You finished your dissertation, so now you just hand 
it in, and they hand you your degree, right? Well, not just yet. 
First, you will get several rounds of feedback from your advisor 
and committee members on various parts of your dissertation 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
13 
and the whole document and make changes that range from 
global to minute. 
For example, Tatiana, a doctoral candidate in art history 
at UC Berkeley, felt relieved to turn her manuscript in to her 
advisor after a focused year of writing. She’d challenged her- 
self to write at least a half page every weekday of the year and 
was ready to move on to new challenges. While waiting to hear 
back from her advisor about the manuscript, she progressed to 
the second round of interviews for a tenure-track position with 
a private university. A week later, when she read her advisor’s 
email, she wasn’t sure whether to cry or scream (she did a little 
of both). The note read: “I’m sorry, but your manuscript is not 
ready to defend. You are going to have to delete and rewrite 
almost all of it.” Unfortunately, Tatiana’s advisor was on sab- 
batical for most of the dissertation writing process and hadn’t 
taken more than a glancing look at any of the chapters along 
© 
the way. Tatiana took a day to steel herself to the reality of 
having to rewrite her dissertation. She knew that this project 
would take another year—maybe more. But her advisor (who 
felt and was partially responsible for the problem) worked with 
her and ultimately championed Tatiana’s work and celebrated 
with her when she successfully defended 15 months later. 
Remember that revision is an expected part of the process. 
Account for it and make sure you have enough time to do it jus- 
tice. It’s best to work from the biggest changes required (ideas, 
argumentation, and organization), before delving too deeply into 
the specifics (e.g., grammar, spelling, formatting, references). 
Defending Your Dissertation 
When you have a completed draft, you'll submit it to your 
advisor and committee, and schedule your defense. You'll 
' 
Ss 
14 
PhDONE 
prepare a presentation and spend a few hours fielding ques- 
tions about your dissertation from those people who (other 
than you) know your work best. In most instances, you'll know 
the result before you walk out of the room, and this is often 
the first time someone will address you as “Doctor” and con- 
gratulate you on your achievement. While even thinking about 
the defense can be stressful, keep in mind that your advisor 
will not let you progress to this stage until they know you are 
ready for it. 
Revising Your Dissertation (Again) 
Now you’re completely done and it’s time to celebrate, 
right? Wrong again (sort of). You should celebrate your achieve- 
ment, but it usually comes with a couple of conditions. Your 
committee will likely award the degree pending some level of 
revision, ranging from minor to major. You'll have to complete 
these within the time your university allots to ensure that you 
do actually receive the degree. However, passing your defense is 
a huge milestone that should be celebrated. 
Formatting, Final Submission, and Bureaucracy 
Finally, you'll likely need to make sure the manuscript for- 
matting aligns with your university style guide and upload it 
to a repository like ProQuest. You’ll need to decide whether 
to embargo the research for a period of time (ensure that it 
isn’t publicly accessible right away if there are confidentiality 
concerns or other reasons to do so). If you want to turn your 
dissertation into a monograph, you will likely want to put an 
embargo in place. You'll also need to complete any other paper- 
work or requirements to make sure you're able to graduate 
(i.e., pay library fines, rent graduation regalia), 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
15 
Choosing a Dissertation Topic 
Often, the first formal foray into dissertation topic selection 
is the personal essay required on a graduate school application. 
The purpose of that document, as you likely already know, is 
to justify why you are the right person to conduct the research 
on your topic, and why you absolutely must do so at your 
target institution: “I’m interested in researching X, which I am 
uniquely qualified to do because of Y, and so it is only fitting 
that I work with Professor Z.” Since then, though, you’ve likely 
completed an average of two years of coursework and refined 
your areas of expertise while completing your comprehensive 
exams. By the time you’re required to decide on a dissertation 
topic, your initial plan may have changed completely. Or maybe 
Professor Z has moved on to another institution. 
Requirements for timeline vary, but proposing the disser- 
tation topic and having a prospectus approved usually come 
‘ 
soon after the completion of coursework and/or comprehensive 
examinations. When it is time to decide on a topic, students 
often realize that they don’t know where to begin. If that is the 
case for you, you’re not alone! While some graduate students 
know from the outset what their dissertation topics will be, for 
others it requires extensive and sometimes onerous deliberation 
to land on a topic. Sometimes, it’s a little bit of both. Lauren 
went through a long period of evaluating and reevaluating her 
dissertation topic, and for a while it felt like she had a new and 
completely different idea on a daily basis. Ultimately, she drew 
on her favorite elements of texts to teach to undergraduates, 
new perspectives gained in research methodologies courses, the 
expertise gained during comprehensive exams, and even the 
kernel of an idea she’d written about in her undergraduate cap- — 
stone thesis for her dance degree. Finally, she gained approval 
16 
PhDONE 
from her advisor on a topic she felt both proud of and excited 
to write (the use of gestures/body movement in the writings of 
James Joyce and Virginia Woolf). Out of curiosity, Lauren dug 
up her graduate school application essay from a buried file of 
documents on her desktop and found that this newly minted 
topic was extremely similar to what she had proposed, then for- 
gotten about in the almost four years that had elapsed since she’d 
written her personal statement. Lauren’s process of indecision 
was a circuitous way back to where she’d started—only fleshed 
out with new experience and expertise. The resemblance ulti- 
mately showed her that she’d hit on the right dissertation topic. 
Choose Something You Can Live With for a While 
You might end up spending a very long time writing your 
dissertation. It is a common mistake to think that the process 
can be finished in a year. While it’s field-specific, in general, 
one year would be a very quick dissertation writing process but 
might be possible. Two years is a more realistic timeline, and 
many doctoral candidates wander into the three- and four-year 
territory and beyond. But it takes most students three to four 
years to complete a dissertation or longer depending on what 
research needs to be conducted. As such, pick a topic that you 
think you will not lose interest in over time. Ask yourself: What 
are the issues and questions that I enjoy thinking about? What 
are the ideas that fascinate me and that I read and contemplate 
at length? Pick a topic that captures your interest and makes 
you excited, so you won’t be bored within a year or two (or, 
worse, a month or two). Choose a topic that you love. If you feel 
passionate about your topic, then researching and writing about 
it will be a joy and a pleasure. If you choose something “just 
because,” then writing the dissertation might feel impossible and 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
17 
your displeasure will show up in the text, reducing the quality 
of your dissertation and making it even harder to write. For 
example, Anna, who was working on her doctorate in Informa- 
tion Technology at Capella University, told us that she would 
stare at her screen and start to get a stomachache as she tried 
unsuccessfully to write about her chosen topic: telehealth. Ironi- 
cally, she was getting physically sick just thinking about writing 
about health care. To make sure that you choose the right topic, 
follow your inspiration and your passion as much as possible. 
That will serve you in the long run. 
Find Something Fresh 
The most important factor to consider when choosing your 
dissertation topic is whether it will make a new and timely con- 
tribution to your discipline. Your topic must be something new. 
As academics like to say, you need to find a “gap in the litera-— 
ture,” which means you need to discover something that hasn’t 
been discussed yet. This doesn’t necessarily mean you have to 
find a brand-new topic that is completely unexplored. Rather, 
you might identify a topic that has been understudied in your 
field or examine a topic from a new perspective or use a dif- 
ferent theory or approach. You can also critically review the 
current research in your field and identify shortcomings that 
have left a gap in the literature, such as the generalizability of 
a population, small sample sizes, or method of analysis. Some- 
times, it doesn’t look like a gap. It might look more like an 
edge: something that has a little research but could use more, or 
something that can be improved, redesigned, or taken in a com- 
pletely new direction. 
Some writers, like Ash, who was studying Anthropology 
and Linguistics at the University of Arizona, go to great lengths 
18 
PhDONE 
to make their dissertation a groundbreaking piece of scholar- 
ship. Ash had funding to travel to Africa to study Ghanaian 
culture for a year, but two months into the process, she couldn’t 
get any of the Ghanaians to open up to her. They would meet 
with her for an interview but rarely answer any of her questions 
with more than a yes or no. Her first plan wasn’t working. Then, 
Ash happened to meet, fall in love with, and eventually marry a 
man from Ghana. She began to live their customs. As a result, 
she was able to connect with them more deeply and engage with 
them more effectively. Her ethnology is a rare window into a 
culture that Americans know little about. But you don’t have 
to make a life change as significant as matrimony to find your 
research topic. Well, not as long as you enjoy reading. 
As with research in general, it helps to start big and then 
get small. Think of the process of finding a gap in literature in 
terms of nesting dolls or stacking cups: start with a big, broad 
topic and do a lot of reading with your key search terms. When 
picking up books in a university library, take a walk down the 
aisle and see if any of the other books on that shelf near the 
one you were specifically looking for jump out at you. When 
Allen was conducting his initial doctoral research, he would typ- 
ically go to the library for one book and leave with ten or fifteen. 
Among those additional “impulse checkouts,” he found some 
real gems that proved to be influential in his dissertation. Look 
at themes that keep appearing or questions that keep popping 
up. You could also look at an area that seemed settled twenty 
years ago, but which there is now room to reevaluate given the 
modern cultural landscape or a recent discovery. The reference 
lists of peer-reviewed articles are great places to search for other 
relevant articles that might be of interest. Every piece of scholarly 
writing will provide breadcrumbs leading you to more and more. 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
19 
A key part of the process is cultivating the discernment to know 
what is relevant and what is tangential to your topic. Casting a 
wide net at the beginning of that process will help you (and your 
committee) know that you have been comprehensive. 
If you continue to pursue the leads you’ve gotten from other 
articles, eventually, you'll find that your research has become 
more specific. Pay attention to areas that have not been ade- 
quately pursued, but make sure you aren’t pursuing a dead end 
either. Keep an eye out for reasons certain research leads have 
not been followed, and what has and hasn’t yielded results. It 
can be helpful to pay careful attention to the conclusion sec- 
tions of research articles, as these often include discussions of 
“areas for future research.” Meta-analyses and review articles 
can be helpful for looking at larger swaths of information when 
searching for a gap in the literature. 
Most importantly, consult the work you yourself have com- 
° 
pleted during your studies. Many graduate students can identify 
the germ of their dissertation in the term paper or final project 
they completed for an upper-division undergraduate course in 
their field. If you’ve already completed a master’s degree, the 
thesis or research you completed for that degree may lead logi- 
cally into your doctoral research. What aspects of your previous 
work remain unexplored? Which were of the most interest 
to you? 
The Conversation in Your Discipline 
Another way to figure out what topic might be new and 
fresh is to pay attention to the conversation in your discipline. 
Pay attention to the kinds of topics people are presenting at the 
big conferences in your field and the articles they are publishing 
in big journals. What topics are not represented? What gaps 
20 
PhDONE 
do you see in the knowledge? What unanswered questions do 
you have when you look at the conversation in your field? By 
asking yourself these questions, you can start to hone in on sub- 
jects that may be worthy of scholarly attention but have yet to 
be pursued. 
Think Small and Specific 
One of our clients, Phoebe, was enrolled in a prospectus 
writing course as part of her Industrial and Organizational 
Psychology doctorate at Grand Canyon University. She was 
disappointed to learn that her instructor would be Professor 
Xavier, a taskmaster known for forcing students to retake the 
prospectus course multiple times until he was satisfied that they 
had a workable idea. Of the other seven students in her cohort, 
many were already repeating the course and knew, in no uncer- 
tain terms, that this wouldn’t be their last stop with Professor 
Xavier. When Phoebe first talked with her editor, she expressed 
frustration with the process, talked about her anxiety to show 
Professor Xavier her work, and repeatedly said she would never 
receive approval on her prospectus. 
“Hold on, Phoebe,” the editor said. “This class isn’t over 
yet! You’re going to get through this!” 
“You think so?” 
“Yes! What ideas do you have? What feedback have you 
been given?” 
Phoebe, it turned out, had too many ideas. She wanted to 
interview business managers about their oversight of remote 
employees. She also wanted to interview remote employees to 
discuss their experience with remote management and their 
productivity working in a remote capacity. The solution was 
simple enough, and her professor had suggested as much. She 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
21 
needed to focus on one group. Too often, doctoral students 
make the mistake of thinking that multiple approaches will 
make their project easier to complete since there will be more to 
write about. But adding lots of approaches obscures a project’s 
focus. A bloated project is a confusing project. 
Phoebe was also stressed. She believed that if she didn’t 
get her prospectus approved and, thus, pass her prospectus 
writing class, her PhD dreams would wither. Several times 
during her first conversation with her editor, Phoebe expressed 
how stressed she was over the class. And the stress from Pro- 
fessor Xavier’s track record was keeping Phoebe from hearing 
the good advice that her professor was giving her. Her editor 
recommended that she recontextualize her study in terms of a 
managerial pandemic response. She could ask remote managers 
about their experience during the COVID-19 health crisis. And 
she agreed that she should remove the employees from the study. 
When Professor Xavier saw Phoebe’s revised prospectus, he 
praised it. She’d heard his critique and had revised accordingly. 
As it turned out, Phoebe was one of only two students that Pro- 
fessor Xavier passed that semester. 
The right dissertation topic should be precise. Like Phoebe, 
you may have to cut loose some ideas that you are excited about 
to get to a manageable project. While a dissertation is an enor- 
mous undertaking, dissertation topics need to be surprisingly 
narrow. You might initially set out to write a dissertation about 
a rather broad topic with dozens of potential subtopics, lots of 
questions, and no single issue around which you can build a con- 
~ 
cise argument. If this is the case, you will likely find you will 
need to narrow it down. The process of narrowing down your 
ideas will also help you refine specific hypotheses, questions, 
and arguments. This will help you focus your dissertation and _ 
22 
PhDONE 
ultimately make it easier to write and more compelling to read. 
The narrower you can go while identifying your topic, the better. 
There is always room for expansion later in the process and 
expanding a topic is generally easier than narrowing it down. 
In research-based qualitative or quantitative dissertations, 
one way to narrow down your topic is to limit the research to a 
specific time frame or geographic location. For example, Kevon, 
an EdD candidate at Baylor, found that no one had studied the 
effect of intergenerational relationships on educational perfor- 
mance in his region. Even though he found similar studies, he 
realized that he could serve his local educational community by 
recontextualizing preexisting studies. He was right. The princi- 
pals that he approached to participate in his study were excited 
about the ramifications of his study on their students. 
Another way to narrow down your topic is to focus on a 
particular demographic population at the exclusion of others. In 
the humanities, this might look like zeroing in on a very small 
subtopic of your broader research area or bringing two small 
subtopics that haven’t been compared before into conversation 
with each other. There are countless ways to narrow down your 
topic, and the more specific you can get at the beginning, the 
better off you'll be in the long run. 
Consider Your Goals and Consider the Market 
When Allen was choosing his dissertation topic at NYU, he 
received all kinds of different advice. Some of his tenured pro- 
fessors told him that the most important thing was to choose 
a topic that he would be happy with and would enjoy thinking 
about for the next few years. Other students in the cohorts closer 
to finishing their dissertations advised him to think ahead to the 
academic job market. They suggested that Allen look at what 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
23 
kind of research was getting published in the ethnomusicology 
field and which young scholars were getting jobs, and then pick 
a topic in line with those trends. Given the precarious nature of 
the academic job market, this sounds like very practical advice. 
It can be difficult, however, to predict which research topics 
will be hot and marketable a few years down the road when 
you're finally looking for work. Too often, the academic buzz- 
words of today get little more than eye rolls tomorrow. 
Our advice is to focus on finding a topic that suits you 
well while keeping your professional goals in mind. Publica- 
tions count for a lot on the academic job hunt, so you definitely 
want to choose a dissertation topic that you think could easily 
result in an article or two. But don’t sacrifice your interests and 
passions in pursuit of a dissertation topic that you think will 
guarantee you a job, because it’s all but impossible to predict 
what that topic will be. Furthermore, if you aren’t passionate 
about your topic, that lack of enthusiasm will come through in 
your conference presentations and job interviews. You won’t be 
able to inspire an audience if you aren’t inspired. 
If you aren’t pursuing a PhD with an academic job in mind, 
then it is even more important that the topic be something useful 
for advancing your career. Thinking beyond the dissertation to 
the book you will publish after the work is completed is a good 
way to think about how you'll establish yourself as a thought 
leader in your field. How will the authorship of this book result 
in launching your new consultancy? What kinds of doors will 
open for you when you are not only a PhD, but have published” 
a book on this particular topic? Ideally, that topic will be the 
passionate inspiration that brought you into the program in the 
first place; however, at the stage of choosing a topic, it’s worth 
taking your career goals into consideration. 
24 
PhDONE 
A colleague of Lauren’s, Rebecca, was working on a disser- 
tation about Beowulf but wasn’t sure she wanted to pursue a 
career as a medievalist working inside academia. Some disser- 
tations, Rebecca realized, lend themselves much more naturally 
to a transition to working outside of academia than becoming 
an expert on a poem written in Old English. However, Rebecca 
was passionate about her research and determined to make the 
dissertation process both align with this passion and advance 
her future career goals. 
In conversation with colleagues and friends, Rebecca 
realized that her favorite part of academia was teaching under- 
graduates. She liked helping the next generation of readers get 
excited about texts that, at first glance, seemed totally inacces- 
sible. Rebecca set about making her dissertation align with this 
goal by exploring the realm of digital humanities. As part of the 
dissertation process, Rebecca created a website where readers 
could instantly translate old English terms, overlayed over the 
text itself, and access images and video clips showing how 
Beowulf had been represented in art over time. The last chapter 
of Rebecca’s dissertation addressed how readers from different 
socioeconomic backgrounds and age groups responded to the 
website. In the end, Rebecca’s dissertation was strong enough to 
lend her several interviews for tenure-track medieval literature 
jobs, but she ultimately decided to take a position with a non- 
profit that works to help underprivileged children and teenagers 
access the arts. 
The takeaway from Rebecca’s story is that the topic selection 
process is the right time to envision several possible futures for 
your career goals and work. Which of these can work together? 
Which do you want to prioritize? Returning to the questions of 
which aspects of your work you enjoy the most, and why you 
FIRST THINGS FIRST: WHAT IS A DISSERTATION ANYWAY? 
25 
wanted to undertake a doctoral degree in the first place, can be 
great places to start. 
The next chapter turns to the topic of work-life balance, and 
how to fit your dissertation writing process into your life and 
amongst your other responsibilities. While these issues arise 
throughout the doctoral journey, especially once you are fully 
immersed in the writing process, they are especially important 
ones to put some thought into at the outset. In the area of work- 
life balance, anticipating obstacles from the beginning and 
implementing strategies to deal with them early on will save 
you a great deal of time and trouble. 
CHAPTER 2 
The Balancing Act: 
How to Juggle Your Life 
and Your Work 
Ever heard someone say that it’s easy to take care of a newborn 
baby? The joke is that while that might be true, it’s extremely 
difficult to do absolutely anything else while taking care of a 
newborn. If you never needed to eat, sleep, or shower—let alone 
work or cook or clean or maintain your sanity and relation- 
ships—it would be a lot more straightforward. Neither caring 
for a newborn nor writing a dissertation could ever genuinely be 
thought of as easy. However, both of these already Herculean 
tasks are significantly complicated by the need to continue 
maintaining all other aspects of your life simultaneously. 
Unhelpfully, the rest of your life doesn’t automatically pause 
when you decide to undertake the dissertation-writing process. 
In fact, your other responsibilities tend to become even a little 
more complicated. You still have to care for your basic physical 
27 
28 
PhDONE 
and mental needs, and the stress and strain of the dissertation 
process might mean that you need to attend to these even more 
assiduously than you did before. Bills still need to be paid, and 
your potentially less-than-generous graduate teaching assistant 
stipend might make that more difficult than usual. Kids still 
need to be fed, clothed, entertained, and driven to violin lessons, 
and having stayed up late finishing an experiment tends not to 
make that any easier. Perhaps most importantly, personal rela- 
tionships still need to be maintained, all while navigating the 
fact that a dissertation can, at times, feel like an all-consuming 
new identity. One of our clients, Sabine, told us that she felt 
guilty working on her dissertation instead of playing with her 
one-year-old. While she knew that she was working on the 
degree to give her daughter a better life, she couldn’t help feeling 
like she was missing out on the life they were presently living! 
There is no perfect way or one-size-fits-all solution to deal 
with the work-life balance conundrum. Work-life balance is dif- 
ficult at the best of times, and some of the characteristics of the 
dissertation writing process—flexible hours, low pay, isolation, 
high standards, unclear benchmarks, lack of support, imposter 
syndrome, and a culture of perfectionism—can exacerbate 
it still further. While that might feel hopeless, a key point to 
remember is that you can’t wait for your dissertation to be com- 
pleted to feel like you’re living your life. Your existence doesn’t 
pause when you enroll in graduate school and resume when you 
triumphantly don your regalia at graduation. Personally, Lauren 
would attribute her happiness during the doctoral journey to 
the advice she received from an undergraduate advisor when 
she told him she was considering applying to graduate school: 
“Great, but just remember that your life doesn’t start when you 
finish your PhD. If you don’t feel like you’re living your life 
THE BALANCING ACT: HOWTO JUGGLE YOUR LIFEAND YOURWORK 
29 
while you're in grad school, it’s not worth it.” Sounds good on 
paper, you might be thinking, but how? The following strategies 
and cautionary tales should help. 
Treat Writing Your Dissertation as Your Job 
For this period of your life, writing your dissertation is 
your job. It’s almost definitely not the only job you’re currently 
holding. You might be getting your PhD while managing house- 
hold and caregiving responsibilities. You might be enrolled in 
a program designed for asynchronous, online degree-obtainers 
and writing your dissertation while working in a demanding 
corporate role. Even if obtaining your PhD is your primary 
responsibility at this point in your life, you’re likely expected 
to teach classes, serve as a research assistant, or otherwise earn 
your keep at your university. 
The job of writing your dissertation ake not be paid very 
well. Heck, it might not be paid at all. You might even be shelling 
out tuition every semester. No matter how many jobs you hold 
or how well, or if you’re being paid for it, it’s important to hold 
the mindset that your dissertation is your job for a few reasons. 
First, thinking of it this way helps you realistically assess the 
time and space required for the process. You’re not going to be 
able to write your dissertation in a few casual spare hours in 
the week, but rather are going to have to consider re-navigating 
your other responsibilities and scheduling time to complete the 
writing process. 
Second, if you’re part of any kind of family unit, suki 
of your dissertation as a job—and encouraging those around 
you to do so as well—can help you start a conversation about 
__ 
redistributing shared responsibilities. For example, our client 
30 
PhDONE 
Shira and her husband Zay had been married for ten years 
when she began a PhD in economics. With the youngest of 
their three children finally in school all day, she decided it was 
time to transition some of her efforts from full-time childcare 
and household management to return to her career passion and 
obtain the degree she’d coveted since her undergraduate edu- 
cation, enrolling in Creighton University Online. She started 
spending 6% hours per day on her research, writing, and other 
graduate school responsibilities (the time remaining from her 
children’s eight-hour school day after subtracting the commute 
to drop them off and pick them up). That 6% hours dwindled as 
the reality of laundry, making dinner, housecleaning, scheduling 
family appointments, managing the budget, paying bills, and 
everything else she’d previously been responsible for piled up. 
When she brought up the subject to Zay, an orthodontist, 
it derailed into an argument about money and their respective 
earnings. “It was your idea to do a PhD, and you just had to do 
the program with no graduate stipend.” Zay told her, “I don’t see 
why I should start cooking and cleaning too when I’m earning 
the money.” He later apologized and they had a more productive 
conversation that helped them balance their home economics 
~ 
with the burden of Shira’s work in her economics program, 
but it’s worth remembering that domestic division of labor is a 
prickly and historically heteronormative and gendered question 
at the best of times. A PhD can exacerbate this dynamic. 
When they spoke further, it came out that Zay was viewing 
Shira’s PhD as a casual hobby and drastically underestimating 
the time commitment it entailed. When they started talking 
about the dissertation as her job and had deeper conversations 
about the value of the endeavor (for Shira personally and for 
their family), things started to shift. Zay encouraged Shira to 
THE BALANCING ACT: HOWTO JUGGLE YOUR LIFEANDYOURWORK 
31 
work while he took the kids to school, and he took over sev- 
eral of the household responsibilities he’d never participated in 
before. They had to work against engrained routines and under- 
lying assumptions about gender roles and household finances, 
but Zay began valuing Shira’s time equally to his own, helped 
by the conversation about treating her dissertation writing pro- 
cess as her full-time job. 
Take a Clear and Realistic Look at Your Existing 
Tendencies and Problems 
The dissertation writing process can amplify anything that 
is already an issue in your life. Dissertation writers again and 
again show marked consistency in their behavior and manner of 
expressing themselves. Difficulties they encounter in their thesis 
writing faithfully mirror difficulties they encounter in other 
- 
areas of life, and the strengths they draw on in doctoral pur- 
suits are the same strengths exhibited elsewhere. 
Luke was writing a dissertation on “cultural literacy and 
college general education curricula” to complete his EdD at 
University of Northern Colorado. This was the second disser- 
tation Luke had started. All his coursework and comprehensive 
exams were behind him, and he had been working on the 
current dissertation for 312 years. Luke was mired in endless 
reading and research, wanting to cover every nook and cranny 
of his challenging topic. He had grandiose ideas of what he 
should accomplish: for example, when he said he had success-- 
fully chunked his project into manageable pieces, one piece 
was “a brief history of general education in the United States” 
and another was “schemes of knowledge and classification 
and taxonomy.” 
32 
PhDONE 
With a strong sense of industriousness, Luke developed 
elaborate organizing and saving techniques for his notes and 
articles, including sorting and re-sorting them into plastic bags 
labeled with magic markers, making a file folder for each para- 
graph he intended to write, and renting a studio apartment for 
his research materials. He was highly engaged intellectually 
and even taped pages in the shower stall with ideas to con- 
sider while showering. The broad scope of his topic meant that 
he was constantly discovering new relevant items and had “a 
nagging, gnawing sense that ‘Gee, is there something else out 
there?’ Sometimes, as a self-disciplinary measure, I tell myself 
the last thing I need is another idea.” When to terminate library 
research, an ambiguous point for all students, was especially 
difficult for Luke. 
But Luke was slow and meticulous no matter what project 
he was working on. His wife, for instance, was bothered by how 
long it took him to build a set of shelves, including several devel- 
opmental stages and extensive notes on shelf design. And Luke’s 
hobby was Japanese gardening, a ritualized and detailed pur- 
suit. Even when a plant was properly trimmed, he didn’t plant it 
in his garden plot’s soil but sunk each one, still in its pot, into a 
hole in the garden in case he decided to change its location later. 
His wife believed that he excused himself from his stress-filled 
family life by vanishing into his endless projects. 
The unclear limits of the dissertation project let Luke’s com- 
pulsive tendencies run rampant. The unforeseeable nature of 
his doctoral comprehensive exams caused him to be physically 
sick beforehand, and he also became very sick during a leave 
of absence he took to write his dissertation, requiring hospital- 
ization, morphine, and Valium. Eighteen months after getting 
THE BALANCING ACT: HOWTO JUGGLE YOURLIFEANDYOURWORK 
33 
in touch with a dissertation coach, he had not yet finished his 
dissertation proposal. 
Luke’s story is not one of the more optimistic anecdotes 
included in this book, but the story highlights the importance 
of painting as clear and unforgiving a picture as you can of 
your potential pitfalls and obstacles before beginning your 
dissertation writing process. It’s unrealistic to think that some- 
thing that has troubled you in past work, personal, or mental 
health arenas won’t rear its head while writing a dissertation, 
since it can be an extremely stressful undertaking. Having 
experienced compulsive tendencies in the past, Luke may have 
found it useful to work with a counselor to develop strategies to 
mitigate those behaviors and their adverse effects before begin- 
ning the process. This leads to our next recommendation: use 
your resources. 
Know All Your Resources and Use Them 
Resources for mental well-being are key and are increas- 
ingly available. Most universities include at least some mental 
health resources in their insurance plans or at least a number of 
free therapy sessions for students. Online therapy avenues some- 
times offer care at a fraction of the price of traditional in-person 
sessions, with flexibility that can make it easier to schedule and 
stick to sessions. Apps for meditation and exercise often offer 
student discounts and free trials, and you may have access to a 
gym membership, peer support, or other tools that may benefit. 
your well-being through your university. We suggest getting in 
touch with your school’s counseling and psychological services 
center. While the stigma surrounding necessary mental health 
34 
PhDONE 
and self-care is decreasing, many still find it difficult to identify 
their need for help or to seek it. However, it’s worth remem- 
bering that everyone can benefit from therapy or counseling 
services, even at the best of times, and that mental health care 
is important preventative medicine. Dissertation writing is a 
stressful process, and strategies for coping can go a long way to 
helping you stay healthy. 
Similarly, writing support can be crucial during the disserta- 
tion process, and many support options are available. A writing 
group can provide support, accountability, and camaraderie 
with members of your cohort or other graduate students at your 
university. If this resource doesn’t exist at your school, it likely 
won’t be difficult to find other interested individuals to join you. 
Such communities also abound online. University writing cen- 
ters are also great tools, often providing coaching on the writing 
process, from brainstorming through revision. 
Should | Go to the Writing Center, 
or Should | Hire an Editor? 
It’s worth highlighting the differences between the ser- 
vice university writing centers provide, compared to paying for 
professional editing services—like those a company like Dis- 
sertation Editor—provides. The main difference is that writing 
centers usually train their consultants not to be overly “direc- 
tive.” This means that your writing center consultant is more 
likely to engage in an open dialog with you about the most 
effective ways to organize your ideas, but that they’re unlikely 
to tell you, “This sentence should go here, and this should be 
reworded to say—.” As a writing center consultant, Lauren was 
always told to focus on pedagogy and “to improve the writer, 
THE BALANCING ACT: HOWTO JUGGLE YOUR LIFEANDYOURWORK 
35 
not the writing.” A writing center is a wonderful, and usually 
free, resource. Writing centers are particularly helpful for brain- 
storming, getting inspiration, and revising your work. What a 
writing center consultant is unlikely to do is take a piece of 
writing and correct errors for you at the line level. 
Fixing the writing is where hiring a professional editor 
can be helpful. While Dissertation Editor provides consulta- 
tion services to help clients with brainstorming, coaching, and 
research assistance, we can also do more of the fine-tuning 
work as well. Unlike writing center consultants, editors can 
correct line-level errors in grammar, punctuation, and spelling, 
as well as improve syntax, organization, and scholarly tone 
for clients. Formatting services are also a key element of pro- 
fessional editors’ services, including creating automatically 
updating tables of contents and lists of tables and figures to 
align with university guidelines; correcting pagination, mar- 
- 
gins, and spacing; formatting reference list entries per the 
required academic style guide; and cross-referencing references 
with in-text citations. 
It’s a good idea to consider your budget and the value of 
your time when deciding whether to enlist outside help. The 
time and energy spent agonizing over how to create a different 
pagination scheme for your front matter and the body of your 
text might serve you better if you spend it preparing for your 
defense. Lauren has told each of her friends who were finishing 
their dissertation that she would be very angry with them if they 
spent time on things like university formatting or final reference 
checks, since she knew it would take her a fraction of the time 
and alleviate a great deal of unnecessary stress for them. Think 
about which pieces of the process might be better delegated to 
someone who does it for a living. 
: 
36 
PhDONE 
Boundaries Are Key 
Students underestimate how much their love and work lives 
will be intertwined with their doctoral pursuits. They often 
don’t realize that life is a system, with all its parts influencing 
and being influenced by each other. For example, when Barrett, 
a church pastor who was completing his DMin at Liberty Uni- 
versity, told his wife he was finding it very difficult to accept his 
dissertation director’s critiques, she wasn’t surprised at all. She 
reminded him that he would always get angry and storm out of 
the room if she tried to offer him her own advice. 
It’s a common belief that people go through identity 
crises when recovering from alcoholism, and Rick was deeply 
involved in Alcoholics Anonymous while writing his disser- 
tation for a clinical psychology doctorate at the University of 
New Mexico. He found a girlfriend named Katy in AA, and 
she supported him in his efforts to stay sober. However, she 
was not knowledgeable about academia and its pressures or 
about the stress of writing a dissertation. The intimacy versus 
isolation crisis, always a problem for a writer, cropped up as 
she had difficulty understanding that he really did not have 
weekends free. She was also upset to hear that his disserta- 
tion might take longer than predicted—a lot longer—since she 
had her own life to plan. After four months, she broke up 
with him. 
Role confusion struck again when Rick accepted a job as 
coordinator of the High Potential Students (HPS) English pro- 
gram, designed for educationally disadvantaged undergraduates. 
“I had planned to have this nice linear program worked out 
and all these little variables that I hadn’t considered changed,” 
he said. The coordinator job required that Rick retrain himself 
as a remedial writing teacher and as a program administrator 
THE BALANCING ACT: HOWTO JUGGLE YOURLIFEAND YOURWORK 
37 
(for $100 extra a month and an impressive line on his vita). 
At some point, Rick understood that he “maybe should have 
turned down the HPS gig,” and his advisor expressed concern 
that the HPS job splintered Rick into too many pieces. Further 
undermining his role stability, the graduate director lost track 
of Rick’s status as a graduate student and sent him “a nasty 
letter nagging me about master’s level requirements.” Rick also 
underwent a 100 percent turnover of committee personnel that 
left him feeling quite insecure. 
Over the summer after the breakup with Katy, Rick said, “I 
didn’t feel much like doing anything.” It was at this time that a 
committee member left the school and Rick’s committee, citing 
“personal reasons.” Rick didn’t see a coincidence; he saw him- 
self as a seven-year-old as his mother left him and his father. 
Rick wasn’t sure if he could even finish his dissertation in light 
of all the instability. He met with one of our editors for a con- 
- 
sultation about his literature review chapter. In response to his 
editor’s question about what he thought about the next phase of 
the project, he shrugged and said, “Somebody will quit on me, 
or someone will die, or someone will move away.” 
But, by September, he reported increased ambition in his 
schoolwork. His quest for sobriety had inspired him to define 
life goals, something he had avoided before. Within six months, 
Rick developed a mutually supportive relationship with a young 
woman entering the same program at the university. This 
woman shared his everyday concerns, and he described her as 
“a diligent student,” the type he was now aiming to socialize 
with; he showed her the ropes of the difficult program in which 
they were both students. He saw that he needed to surround 
himself with upbeat, high-achieving people instead of looking 
for friends among the burdened souls he met at AA. 
; 
38 
PhDONE 
Just like in life, healthy boundaries-are key to dissertation 
success and happiness. First, think about your spatial bound- 
aries. Like all remote work, dissertation writing lends itself to 
bleeding into every aspect of your life. While there is undoubt- 
edly some benefit to writing on your laptop from the comfort 
of your bed, it’s healthy to establish spatial boundaries, even 
if they are slight (e.g., I only work on my dissertation at my 
desk; the bedroom is for rest). Availing of separate spaces— 
like your on-campus office (if you’ve been assigned one), study 
spaces at university or public libraries, and coffee shops—can 
also help you separate the place you work from the place 
where you rest. 
Similarly, creating a schedule can help you set boundaries 
on your time, and ensure that you don’t work eighteen hours 
a day. While maintaining creative flexibility is ideal for some, 
deciding on specified writing hours is often a beneficial tool. 
Even treating the writing process as a nine-to-five job can help 
many doctoral students set healthy boundaries for themselves. 
At the very least, creating some time to unplug from the disser- 
tation is key. 
Boundaries in relationships are also crucial. It’s useful to 
spend time thinking about how much talking about your disser- 
tation is a.) Useful for you and b.) Tolerable for friends and family 
members. While it feels great to have those close to you take an 
interest in your work, and while it can be helpful to discuss your 
project with people outside of your field/university, when all 
your conversations begin and end with your dissertation, that 
becomes difficult for everyone. Some lucky dissertation writers 
have friends and family who not only take an interest in their 
dissertation, but actively want to help. This can be great, but 
it requires caution. If you let the personal relationship become 
THE BALANCING ACT: HOWTO JUGGLE YOUR LIFEAND YOURWORK 
39 
too embroiled with your professional work, boundaries can be 
crossed and feelings hurt. 
Lauren once edited a dissertation where the writer had 
asked his wife to read and provide commentary on it. She had 
some useful ideas and had put a lot of time into engaging with 
her partner’s research and ideas. However, there were barbed 
and passive-aggressive comments littered throughout her feed- 
back. On one passage that contained a few grammar and 
spelling errors, as well as confusing syntax, she’d written, “No 
offense, but I don’t understand how the writing is this bad 
when you’ve been spending so much time on this.” Whether 
offense was taken or not, Lauren felt strongly that it was 
intended. So, find the line between accepting help and adding 
a tense dynamic to an existing relationship. Remember that it’s 
wonderful if your friend, family member, or partner is willing 
and able to provide auxiliary academic support, but that it is: 
not their responsibility, and they are definitely ot your editor 
or advisor. 
The next chapter addresses advisors and committees—how 
to select them, and how to navigate your relationships with 
them once you’ve done so. These relationships can be wonderful 
or fraught, but we’ve never encountered anyone who has com- 
pleted a PhD who doesn’t have at least one story about a time 
when they felt stressed about their advisor. Lauren had a great 
relationship with her advisor and found her to be insightful and 
present throughout the process. Right before her dissertation 
defense, Lauren’s advisor emailed her a definition of one of 
the 
words included in the dissertation’s title. Does she think I don’t 
know what one of the very core elements of my dissertation 
means? Lauren thought, letting her anxiety run wild. In hind- 
sight, it was obvious that her advisor was just guiding Lauren 
40 
PhODONE 
to remember the foundation of her work and go back to basics. 
Advisors can at times be difficult, but the fact that PhD com- 
pletion is inherently stressful can also lead to hypersensitivity, 
and means that these relationships too can be tricky to navi- 
gate. The recommendations in the next chapter are designed to 
help you preempt any issues that might arise and navigate the 
advisor-advisee relationship with ease. 
~— 
CHAPTER 3 
Picking Your Team: 
The Dissertation Committee 
and the Advisor-Advisee 
Relationship 
The Dissertation Committee 
Your dissertation committee is a team of professors who are 
meant to provide expertise, guidance, and mentorship as you 
write your dissertation. They are the audience for whom your 
dissertation is written. While many students like to think of 
their research as being relevant to a larger community, the truth 
is that dissertations are ultimately written for dissertation com- 
mittees. After dissertations have been approved by the commit- 
tees, then that same research can be rewritten into books and 
journal articles for the larger audiences we researchers imag- 
ine for our doctoral work. We say this up front because it is 
important to keep your audience in mind when undertaking _ 
41 
42 
PhDONE 
any major writing project. In the case of doctoral dissertations, 
the audience is tremendously small and often hand-selected by 
you, the author. 
In most cases, your dissertation committee members will be 
faculty whose research is similar to your own, either in topic or 
approach. They may be experts in the specific topic area that 
you are writing your dissertation about. Alternatively, they may 
be experts in a particular research methodology you are using. 
One of those committee members, typically referred to as the 
chair, fulfills the role of dissertation advisor and is the primary 
guide/mentor for you throughout your dissertation journey 
(more on that coming up). 
Why a Committee? 
By having multiple faculty members serve as sources of 
dissertation help, your dissertation will be richer. You'll be 
able to gather perspectives and feedback from a range of 
different scholars. Working with a committee is also a pre- 
cautionary measure. For example, if, for some reason, your 
relationship with your advisor goes awry, your committee can 
support you and can step in, if need be. The committee also 
enables the university to ensure that only top-notch research 
gets approved. Rather than a lone professor, a team of fac- 
ulty members is required to approve your dissertation. They 
are each staking their academic reputation on the fact that 
the dissertation they approve is, in fact, high-quality research, 
worthy of a PhD degree. The committee thus functions as a 
system of checks and balances to ensure that advisors are nei- 
ther unjustly holding students back from finishing nor hastily 
pushing students whose work is unworthy of the degree 
through the process. 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
43 
Who Chooses Your Dissertation Committee Members? 
At some institutions, you will have the opportunity to choose 
your committee members. You'll be able to ask faculty members 
to join your dissertation committee. At other institutions, you 
may be assigned dissertation committee members. Be sure to 
find out early in your graduate school career whether or not it is 
your responsibility to assemble your committee. This informa- 
tion can typically be found in your graduate school handbook. 
If you are able to choose your committee, this may influence the 
selection of your dissertation topic as well as other elements of 
the writing process. For example, you may decide to read up on 
the research your committee has published, considering their 
arguments, the methods they have used, and their limitations/ 
strengths before making decisions about your own project. This 
bit of knowledge may help you gain insight into their expec- 
tations, research interests, and the types of questions/concerns 
° 
they may have about your research project. 
How Should | Choose Dissertation Committee Members? 
Typically, students choose their advisor first. Be sure 
to review the section of this book titled “Your Dissertation 
Advisor” (see page 45) for information about selecting and 
working with a dissertation advisor. Asking your advisor for 
suggestions for committee members is a great way to ensure 
that you will have a committee that gets along, or at least shares 
a vision for how your dissertation project should unfold. 
Pay attention to the initial responses you get from professors 
when discussing your project. Watch for body language. If a pro- 
fessor hesitates or says that they’re not sure they’d be the best fit, 
take them at their word and look elsewhere. The first professor one 
of our clients, Bex, asked to serve as their dissertation director said 
44 
PhDONE 
that very phrase: “I’m not sure I'd be the best fit.” Bex didn’t know 
at the time that he had just used a polite academic phrase that 
really meant, “Get out of my office and leave me alone forever.” 
So, Bex asked him if he’d be willing to serve on their committee, 
just not as the director. His response? “No, as I said before, I don’t 
think I’'d be a good fit for this project.” Here, the “as I said before” 
is a professional way of saying, “Are you deaf? I said no!” At the 
time, Bex was frustrated that the professor wasn’t getting on board 
with the project, but in hindsight, Bex was grateful that the pro- 
fessor did not acquiesce and serve on their committee. He knew he 
wasn’t a good fit and was letting Bex know it. 
Seeking out scholars whose backgrounds complement that 
of your advisor can be a valuable strategy. If your advisor shares 
the same area of interest as you, but you plan on conducting 
research using a different methodology, then finding a com- 
mittee member who has expertise in that methodology is a wise 
move. If you think of your dissertation as having many different 
aspects Or components, your committee is your hand-selected 
team of experts who can help you develop each of those com- 
ponents so that your overall argument is coherent and strong. 
What Should Your Dissertation Committee Do? 
The degree of involvement your committee will have in your 
dissertation depends on the culture of your department. Some- 
times, committee members provide in-depth editing. Other 
times, they may only be interested in reading and commenting 
on final drafts, or simply showing up for the defense. As you 
begin the doctoral-writing process, make sure to sit down with 
your committee members and talk about how involved they will 
be at each step of the process. Setting these expectations at the 
outset can help you avoid misunderstandings down the road. 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
45 
What If Your Dissertation Committee Doesn’t Get Along? 
Sometimes, dissertation committees can get unruly and 
chaotic. Faculty members may have conflicting strong opinions 
or biases, and the professional relationships among your disser- 
tation committee members may be difficult for you to navigate. 
Remember this: if your dissertation committee members have 
conflicts among each other that manifest in the way they treat 
you, try not to take it personally. It can be tough, but remember 
that if your dissertation committee members are in conflict with 
one another, it isn’t a reflection of the quality of your work. If 
your committee members speak negatively about each other in 
front of you, be sure to maintain professionalism and politely 
decline to participate in any gossip or discussion that isn’t per- 
tinent to your project. Taking sides with one of your professors 
against another is a sure way to torpedo your project. Some- 
times, dissertation committee members may disagree about the: 
direction of your project. In those circumstances, your disserta- 
tion chair/advisor will make the final call, and you can ask them 
to offer an opinion or mediate. 
Your Dissertation Advisor 
In addition to providing you with guidance and support 
while developing your dissertation, your advisor is typically 
the first gatekeeper toward your advancement through the doc- 
toral journey. Without your advisor’s approval, you will not be 
able to defend your proposal to begin conducting your research. 
Without your advisor’s approval, you cannot send your chap- 
ters out to the rest of the committee for their approval. The 
relationship you have with your advisor and the way in which 
— 
they shepherd you through the process from topic selection 
to _ 
| 
46 
PhDONE 
proposal, and to defense can make or break your grad school 
experience. The right advisor can mentor you throughout grad- 
uate school and beyond, but the wrong advisor can hamper 
your progress and hold you back. So, how do you pick the right 
dissertation advisor? 
Meet Many Professors 
While some doctoral programs assign you an advisor or 
require you to choose an advisor before you begin, others allow 
you to choose an advisor after you’ve been in the program for 
a while. If you’re in the latter situation, take as many classes 
as you can with as many different faculty members as pos- 
sible. Visit professors during their office hours for guidance and 
feedback on your coursework to get a sense of what your one- 
on-one relationship might be like if you selected them as your 
dissertation advisor. This way, you'll learn which faculty mem- 
bers’ working styles and personalities you like. Do you want 
an advisor who takes a laissez-faire approach and will let you 
pursue your dissertation in any way you like? Or do you want 
someone who takes a heavier hand in guiding your work? The 
best way to get a good sense of what a faculty member will be 
like as a dissertation advisor is by working with them ahead of 
time. If you need to find an advisor before you begin a program, 
contact professors, try to meet with them at conferences, and 
talk to their current students so that you can find out what their 
working style is like. 
A dissertation writer’s match or mismatch with her advisor 
is a substantial factor in her success or delay. Be warned: it is cru- 
cial to select the right advisor. We’ve seen too many students get 
saddled with an unwieldy and adversarial committee member 
that effectively stonewalled their doctoral candidate, leaving 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
47 
them nothing to do but leave the program. Charis’s advisor, Dr. 
Farrington, was a scholar in British Literature studies, highly 
recognized and accomplished in his field. Indeed, students with 
glowing recommendation letters in hand from Dr. Farrington 
often received tenure track offers. But his advice to Charis was 
manipulative from the beginning of their professional relation- 
ship. When Charis was invited to speak at a regional conference, 
Dr. Farrington told Charis in no uncertain terms that he would 
likely not want to write her a job recommendation letter if she 
presented at conferences before he gave her his blessing. Charis 
felt that something was off, but disregarded it. She was devel- 
oping a professional rapport with the esteemed Dr. Farrington, 
after all! A year later, she asked Farrington to chair her disserta- 
tion committee. To her detriment, he agreed. For the next three 
years, Charis could never write anything that Dr. Farrington 
found worthy of Joycean studies and, in his words, nothing: 
that would “Make me apt to write a recommendation letter for 
you.” When Charis left the program, Dr. Farrington told her it 
was for the best. 
But what exactly is a good match? Hallie’s chosen advisor, 
Dr. Arbuthnot, seemed like an ideal match because his specialty 
in American literature was directly in Hallie’s favorite area of 
study. Hallie thought this expertise would be a great help in 
designing and writing her research. What Hallie hadn’t thought 
about was that Dr. Arbuthnot had a small office on a different 
floor than the rest of the department, the office had no window, 
and Dr. Arbuthnot was not on a dissertation committee for any 
of the other American literature students. Hallie paid no atten- 
tion to these signs that Dr. Arbuthnot was an outcast among 
his peers, even though he was tenured and had published sev- 
eral well-received monographs in Hallie’s chosen area. When 
48 
PhDONE 
it became clear that she was going to have difficulty recruiting 
committee members and that Dr. Arbuthnot was out of favor 
in general, Hallie regretted her decision to match only on 
topic area. 
Carl and his advisor, Dr. Simon, were a perfect match in 
personality and intellect. Both loved to sit in Dr. Simon’s office 
discussing ideas and philosophy at length. Both hated to be 
driven by calendar deadlines. Dr. Simon thought that deadlines 
and scholarly discipline were “inherited from the dysfunctional 
nuclear family” and said that his approach to a dissertation 
student was “completely laissez-faire. A friend, a colleague- 
scholar-friend sort of thing.” This relationship was Carl’s 
ideal, too. However, it resulted in a long, rambling process that 
switched directions weekly, made worse by Dr. Simon’s stubborn 
resistance to learning the protocols (“secretarial paperwork”) 
required by the department, college, and university. In this case, 
the relationship’s strength was also the student’s downfall. 
Another faculty member, Dr. Lavrenti, described himself as 
an intrusive advisor: “My reputation is that my students finish. 
I call them, I nag them, I cajole them, I remind them.” He has 
called advisees at 4 a.m. and said, “I’m up reading. Why aren’t 
you up writing?” “We hold their feet to the fire down here,” he 
said cheerfully. He has gone so far as to get one advisee thrown 
off a volunteer softball team so that he would spend more time 
' 
writing. Though one might think that no one would choose Dr. 
Lavrenti as an advisor, many students do. They know that they 
can depend on him, and he’ll supplement the self-control they 
may not be able to muster by themselves. Dr. Lavrenti’s style has 
proven complementary to his students as the 100 percent pass 
rate among his advisees bears witness. In contrast, Dr. Simon 
has never had a dissertation student finish under his tutelage. 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
49 
Compatible Research Interests and Methodologies 
To get the advising you need to complete your dissertation 
successfully, you need to find someone who shares compatible 
research interests or methods. Your choice of dissertation topic 
and dissertation advisor are linked. Your advisor doesn’t nec- 
essarily need to do research on the exact same topic as your 
dissertation, but it can be helpful if they work in a closely con- 
nected area. Alternatively, you may want to work with someone 
who uses methods that you want to use. For example, perhaps 
you want to do an ethnographic project. You may seek out a 
dissertation advisor who is an expert ethnographer but doesn’t 
necessarily work with the same group of people you plan 
to research. 
Read Their Work 
The best way to find a dissertation advisor with research 
- 
interests compatible with your own is to read widely in your 
field and identify the scholarship you like the best. You likely 
experienced a similar version of this step in the process before 
entering graduate school. You may have chosen to attend your 
institution because the book that was most foundational to 
your thoughts was authored by someone in your department. 
If you’re considering various people in your department, read 
their work even if it doesn’t directly relate to your own. Of 
course, you'll already be reading widely in your field, but this 
type of reading is focused more on reading texts published by 
your potential advisor to gain insight into how they think and 
work. You likely already know whether their research interests 
align with your own but reading their work will help you learn 
what they value as researchers and academics, what methodol- 
ogies they employ, and what characterizes their writing style. 
50 
PhDONE 
Will Your Dissertation Advisor Support You? 
It is crucial to find an advisor who will provide the sup- 
port that you need. When you are fielding potential advisors, 
watch out for signs that they might not be present when you 
need them. Do they often travel for research? Are they going to 
be up for tenure soon and focused on their own career? Are they 
close to retirement? If so, they may not be able to provide you 
with the one-on-one support that a doctoral candidate needs 
from their dissertation advisor. Again, that might not be what 
you need, but if it is, these are important considerations when 
choosing your advisor. 
Talk to Students 
Talk to other graduate students, both before and after 
you get into graduate school. If there is a professor you are 
interested in working with, seek out and talk to their current 
advisees. Graduate students can offer frank, upfront advice 
about a potential advisor, and warn you of any potential red 
flags or conflicts. Don’t be afraid to ask students tough ques- 
tions about their advisors. Students can tell you how long their 
advisor takes to read and respond to their work and whether 
their advisor is supportive or overly critical. These insights will 
be important as you make your decision. 
A good advisor-advisee relationship takes two people to 
make it work, so good communication is key. Look for poten- 
tial advisors early in the graduate school process. If you can 
assist a professor as a research assistant, that can function 
as a good “trial run” to see how you work together. Lauren 
had the good fortune to work with a professor who demon- 
strated how to schedule your way into completing a project by 
daily completing manageable tasks. He also related his own 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
51 
experiences as a student and professor, which helped Lauren 
understand what to expect in the job market and in the pro- 
fession. What was some of his advice? “Take your time, don’t 
make a hasty decision, and ensure you fulfill your responsibil- 
ities as an advisee and a postgraduate student.” Expectations 
of the student’s responsibilities are usually laid out in a uni- 
versity’s graduate school handbook. In a worst-case scenario, 
your advisor will be one in name only and you will find 
mentoring elsewhere. 
Dealing With a Difficult Advisor 
In a perfect world, your dissertation advisor would always 
read and return emails promptly, provide unwavering support, 
and share expert guidance that always hits the mark. Their edits 
would be illuminating, clearly explained, and would propel you 
to the next part of your paper. Of course, our advisors are only- 
human, and sometimes we find ourselves working with a dif- 
ficult advisor. We might encounter this in the workplace as 
well—a challenging coworker, a difficult boss, a prickly super- 
visor. It’s always good to know how to deal with a person like 
this without losing your cool or becoming derailed. I’ve had 
hundreds of conversations with students about their advisors. 
Here are some things to keep in mind. 
Common Issues With Difficult Advisors 
Advisors can be difficult for a variety of reasons. Sometimes 
it’s an issue of personalities and work styles not meshing well, 
If you’re wondering whether your advisor’s behavior is prob- 
lematic, here are some common issues that cause friction in the 
advisor-student relationship, alongside examples from clients of 
ours who have spoken to us about these issues: 
52 
PhDONE 
You get no response or very little response when 
you turn in work. 
Eleanor’s advisor was absolutely great—when 
he actually made time to read her work. When she 
submitted the first full draft of her public policy 
dissertation to him at the beginning of August, she 
had visions of graduating in December. At the end 
of October, after several unanswered emails and 
empty promises, Eleanor warned him that if he 
didn’t give her feedback by Thanksgiving, she was 
going to petition the University for a new advisor. 
He gave Eleanor feedback to one chapter on the 
Wednesday before Thanksgiving and finally the 
last of his feedback by the end of January. Eleanor’s 
threats to change advisors may or may not have 
been empty. She told her editor that she’s not sure 
what she would have done had he not finally read it. 
Ultimately, Eleanor graduated the following May. 
The advisor expresses frustration or seems dis- 
appointed in your work without providing any 
guidance or constructive feedback. 
We see this one often with many of our clients. 
Many advisors have too many responsibilities and - 
simply don’t have the time to go the extra mile with 
students who need the support. Some students who 
need the heavy-handed advisor end up with laissez- 
faire—simply because none of the faculty at their 
university have the bandwidth to be heavy handed. 
As a result, they get comments that simply say, 
“unclear, please explain,” without any idea what 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
is unclear or needs explaining. We’ve seen count- 
less dissertations where three to five pages in, the 
advisor leaves a comment saying, “I refuse to read 
any further,” often followed by an expression of 
frustration in the quality of the work thus far pre- 
sented. Students with advisors like these are among 
those most likely to pursue outside help. 
The advisor doesn’t get on well with other com- 
mittee 
members 
and 
contributes 
to 
gridlock 
and delays. 
A statistics client of ours, Seamus, had deter- 
mined in conversation with his advisor that two-way 
ANOVA would be the best test to use to analyze 
the results of his survey on burnout among different 
groups of nurse practitioners. We helped him run the 
test and he was immersed in-the process of writing 
his results chapter, when he received a reply with 
belated feedback to the methodology chapter he’d 
sent to one of his other committee members months 
earlier. She insisted that ANCOVA would be pref- 
erable. Knowing this would, of course, require 
running a new test, as well as completely changing 
the results of the analysis and taking into account 
a covariate he and his advisor had decided not to 
consider, Seamus went to his advisor, who told him 
to “ignore her, she doesn’t know what she’s talking 
about.” Predictably, this same committee member 
53 
refused to approve the results chapter based on the _ 
initial analysis. It wasn’t until Seamus asked his 
third committee member to weigh in and mediate 
54 
PhDONE 
between the others and help with a final decision 
that he was actually able to move forward after a 
great deal of stress and delay. 
Inappropriate 
relationships 
(e.g., 
being 
overly 
involved in a student’s life or asking personal ques- 
tions or favors). 
There was a professor at Alex’s university who 
had a reputation for this. The students he advised 
formed a sort of clique around him. They were all 
intimately involved in each others’ lives in a way that 
might have been supportive but was also seemingly 
problematic and prone to gossip and melodrama. 
That professor didn’t seem to respect boundaries or 
would relish in pushing against them. Alex remem- 
bered having had a very awkward conversation 
with him while standing at the adjacent urinal after 
class. Nothing said crossed any official boundaries, 
but the interaction didn’t sit well with Alex, who 
came to us for help interpreting vague feedback 
from his own advisor. He mentioned this story to 
his editor in a “well, it could be worse” tone, after 
complaining about the difficulty of parsing his own 
advisor’s commentary on his writing. 
Questionable professional or academic behavior 
(plagiarism; lack of regard for ethics). 
One student, Ian, felt that his chair was pre- 
senting his ideas as if they were her own at a national 
conference. They’d had many candid conversations, 
but he was dismayed when before his dissertation 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
55 
was published key theoretical ideas he felt he had 
developed showed up in an article published by 
his advisor. While it is quite likely that these ideas 
emerged in dialogue and that the chair felt she had 
as much ownership to them as the student did, the 
fact that he felt this way about the relationship poi- 
soned the well of trust between them, making it 
very difficult for Ian to move forward. 
e 
Demeaning attitude toward student, harassment, or 
abusiveness in words or tone. 
One of the professors in Farah’s history depart- 
ment absolutely terrified her. When she had to attend 
office hours, the advisor mocked each of her ideas and 
contributions to the conversation, often saying things 
like “what an undergraduate way of thinking about 
that” and “I don’t understand why you were accepted 
into this program. It’s going downhill lately.” While 
the professor was someone Farah had initially hoped 
to work with, he was, after all, well respected in his 
field, and prolifically published on topics adjacent to 
Farah’s, she knew that the relationship would be a 
disaster. Ultimately, the advisor told Farah, “You're 
a fool for not having my name on your dissertation,” 
which only served to confirm to Farah that she’d 
made the correct choice not to ask her to serve as a 
committee member, and certainly not as an advisor. 
If you need to create a space where you can still forge ahead 
with your work and maintain your sanity, consider developing 
clear and reasonable boundaries, both personally and with your 
56 
PhDONE 
work, and share them with your advisor. It may also be helpful 
to search for support and resources, outside of your advisor, 
such as a tutor or editor, that help you get what you need to 
achieve your goals. Both strategies will help you take care of 
yourself and progress with your work, while simultaneously 
trying to manage a difficult advisor. 
It might also be worth identifying areas where you and your 
advisor agree and where you diverge. Make a list, identify the 
problems you’re having and what you’d like to see changed, and 
if your advisor is willing, meet with them to discuss how these 
differences can be managed to create a more successful relation- 
ship. Ask your advisor if they have ideas about how to move 
forward or any alternative solutions. 
If you find yourself struggling with any of the above issues 
and are unable to address them with your advisor, find a faculty 
member you can trust and (in a professional manner) ask how 
you might handle the situation. Keep any written communica- 
tions you have with your advisor, document any inappropriate 
or abusive behavior, and seek support from fellow graduate stu- 
dents to help keep you on track with your work. Update your 
committee members on your progress and reach out to them 
with what you need (e.g., if you would like to start the next sec- 
tion of your dissertation by a certain date, let them know). This. 
way, if any problems arise, it’s clear where the problem lies. 
What is the standard protocol for dealing with problematic 
advisors? Some schools will guide you to the department chair 
and others might suggest going to the ombudsman’s office. The 
ombudsman will conduct an independent inquiry into the issue 
and then provide strategies to help resolve conflicts or problems. 
Hopefully, you will never have to experience any of these diffi- 
culties, but it’s important to be prepared in case you do! 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
57 
Evaluating the Nuclear Option: 
Deciding Whether to Switch Advisors 
When Muhammad, a doctoral candidate in mathematics 
at Georgia Tech, asked for feedback from his advisor, his 
communications were rarely reciprocated. During one of 
their early conversations, just after starting graduate school, 
Muhammad was relieved to find that his advisor seemed 
incredibly supportive: 
a collaborator and cheerleader in 
the process. He told Muhammad to feel free to send him 
any work he produced, even if it was only a few sentences 
at a time, and he would be happy to provide feedback on 
it. Muhammad did so, assiduously sending him sections 
of writing on a biweekly basis. He never received a reply. 
During their next meeting, Muhammad asked him if he had 
any thoughts on the work so far, to which he replied that he’d 
need to see a whole chapter before providing feedback would ° 
be worth his time. 
Undeterred, Muhammad put his head down and com- 
pleted a draft of an entire chapter, breathing a sigh of relief 
as he emailed it off. Three weeks later, he received feedback, 
the extent of which was the correction of seven punctuation 
errors. When he submitted the next chapter, the sparse feedback 
only addressed issues with APA-style in-text citations. During 
another in-person meeting, Muhammad asked a question about 
a fundamental aspect of his research design, and his advisor’s 
answer made it clear that he hadn’t yet read any of the material 
Muhammad had sent. 
At this juncture, Muhammad had two choices. He could 
go through the laborious process of trying to change advisors, 
or he could maintain the relationship, but seek additional help 
elsewhere. When dissertation writers find themselves so at odds 
— 
58 
PhDONE 
with an advisor that they contemplate the idea of attempting 
to switch, there are several key points that must be considered: 
1. How damaging is the advisor’s behavior? In 
Muhammad’s case, the issue was frustrating and 
was affecting his workflow, but not otherwise 
causing undue distress. If an advisor’s behavior 
is inappropriate or abusive, and if it’s affecting 
your mental health or desire to complete your 
dissertation, your course of action may need to 
be different. 
2. How valuable is the advisor’s name? Is your advisor 
the preeminent scholar in your entire field? If so, 
and their behavior isn’t egregious or damaging, 
the professional value of having worked with them 
might be enough to offset the fact that they’re not 
providing the tangible help you need. Is another 
professor on your committee just as respected in 
the scholarly community, but much more willing 
to help? In that instance, it might be worth 
investigating your options to change advisors. 
3. Can you seek support elsewhere? Are the 
other members of your committee much more 
supportive? Can you join a writing group with 
colleagues who review each other’s work? Should 
you hire a dissertation coach/editor? Your other 
avenues for support are worth keeping in mind 
during this decision as well. 
In the end, Muhammad decided that his advisor’s reputa- 
tion was going to be of significant value on the job market. He 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
59 
developed a closer relationship with one of the other professors 
on his committee, joined a group of peers, and hired an editor. 
With those additional support options in place, he was able to 
keep the relationship and association with his advisor, while still 
obtaining the help he needed. Most importantly, whether the 
nuclear advisor-switching option is best for you must be handled 
on a case-by-case basis, and ideally after seeking the feedback of 
a trusted colleague, friend, family member, therapist, or another 
committee member/professor in your department (though tread 
carefully here and be aware of the possibility that something 
you say could get back to your advisor). 
Outside Committee Members or Readers 
Can Improve Your Dissertation 
When you work with someone outside of your field of’ 
study, they can introduce you to ideas that may help your work 
become more innovative and interesting. Being able to carry 
out interdisciplinary research (i.e., research that engages with 
more than one academic field) may provide you with an advan- 
tage when you enter the academic job market. At the very least, 
it means that your dissertation 
will have a greater impact on the 
scholarly community, not just on academics in your field. Out- 
side committee members can also help you learn new research 
strategies that will help you become a better interdisciplinary 
scholar and potentially introduce you to scholars beyond your 
field, helping you extend your academic network. Lauren’s out- 
side committee member wound up giving her a strategy for 
organizing her chapters that proved extremely helpful. Her 
advisor and other two committee members were all in the 
_ 
literature department and didn’t recommend any changes to. 
60 
PhDONE 
Lauren’s initial, and conventional, structure of dividing chap- 
ters according to the key literary texts studied: one on Ulysses, 
one on Finnegans Wake, one on Between the Acts, and one 
on To the Lighthouse. Her outside committee member, a 
scholar from the music department, could see thematic reso- 
39k 
nances of “musical gesture,” 
“rhythmic gesture,” etc., that 
none of the others had initially considered. After revising the 
work to be thematic rather than separated according to each 
literary text, Lauren’s advisor and other committee mem- 
bers all agreed that its flow and progression of argument had 
significantly improved. 
How to Find the Perfect Outside Committee Member 
or Outside Reader 
In some departments, graduate students get to choose their 
outside committee member or outside reader. In other depart- 
ments, the role may be assigned by your dissertation advisor. If 
you are able to choose your own outside collaborator, the best 
way to ensure that your relationship with your outside com- 
mittee member will be beneficial is to find someone with whom 
you can work well. Since graduate departments are often iso- 
lated from one another, it can be difficult to get to know faculty 
from other parts of your university. However, there are ways to 
make those connections! 
e 
While you’re in coursework, take classes in other 
departments. Some programs require or allow 
you to take courses outside of your field. This is 
a great way to meet faculty and provides a chance 
to see how those faculty members work with 
graduate students. 
PICKING YOUR TEAM 
61 
e 
Meet graduate students from other departments. If 
your campus has a Graduate Students’ Association 
or similar organization, try going to their events so 
that you can meet students in other departments. 
They may be able to offer suggestions or introduce 
you to their faculty members. If you know a fellow 
graduate student whose research interests you, find 
out who their advisor is. That person could be a 
great outside reader for you. 
e 
Attend research symposiums, 
talks, and events 
hosted by other departments. This is another great 
way to meet faculty from outside your department 
and find out about their research. If you like some- 
one’s work, don’t be shy about introducing yourself 
or following up with an email. 
e 
Ask your advisor. They’ll know faculty whose 
research may have connections to your dissertation 
and may be able to arrange introductions. 
Developing a Good Relationship With Your Outside 
Committee Member 
Faculty members are often quite busy, and sometimes seem 
inaccessible. Furthermore, many see their primary responsibility 
being to students in their home departments, even if they agree 
to serve on your dissertation committee. Talk to your outside 
committee member or outside reader about how involved they 
are willing to be in your dissertation process. Are they willing 
to read drafts? Are they willing to meet with you a couple 
of 
times each semester to talk about your progress or help you 
work through your ideas? How far in advance of a defense or 
62 
PhDONE 
exam date do they need to receive your work? As with com- 
mittee members from inside your department, it is always best 
to work these issues out in advance to avoid misunderstanding 
down the line. If you’re worried that your outside reader might 
not approve of your dissertation topic or research methods, 
remember that, at the end of the day, your dissertation advisor 
or committee chair will have the final say. 
Before delving into the specific sections included in a dis- 
sertation, the next chapter provides advice to set yourself up for 
success in the writing process. It includes a discussion of how 
to lean into your unique writing style, how to think outside the 
box, what reference texts can be useful to read before you start 
writing, and how to navigate writer’s block. Like the ground- 
work you’ve created by evaluating how to fit your dissertation 
into your life and how to cultivate the relationships with your 
advisor and committee members, establishing a foundation for 
good writing practices will save you time in the long run. 
CHAPTER 4 
The Write Approach to 
Crafting Your Dissertation 
Unless you’re completing a PhD after a previous career as a 
novelist, the dissertation is probably the longest piece of writ- 
ing you’ve ever attempted to write. Even if it’s not, it’s a dif- 
ficult genre of writing that isn’t quite like anything else. It’s 
important to prepare yourself for not only the elements that 
need to be included in your dissertation, which the next chap- 
ters will address in more detail, but the fact that the actual 
process of sitting down at your computer and opening a blank 
document won’t always be easy. 
The Importance of Piaying to Your Strengths 
Ellen, a Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) student at 
Walden University, told us that she’d been a procrastinator 
throughout her academic career. From the last-minute science 
fair project haphazardly designed from household items to the 
__ 
64 
PhDONE 
college term paper completed with the help of energy drinks and 
all-hours study rooms, she had always produced her best work 
at the last minute. Early in her dissertation writing process, a 
colleague recommended that she set a goal to write 300 words a 
day, to help overcome her tendency to procrastinate. Try as she 
might, Ellen rarely sat down to write. When she remembered, 
a bit guiltily, her daily target, and when she did make it to her 
computer, she would usually stare at a blank document for an 
hour or so before giving up. She progressed well through the 
literature review process, reading and taking notes on relevant 
scholarly articles (though her “Chapter 2” document remained 
empty), and began the process of conducting her qualitative 
research, but the words still wouldn’t come. 
The pitfall Ellen was experiencing was a failure to play to 
her strengths. Though well-meaning, her colleague’s advice had 
the opposite of its intended effect, and Ellen got in her own 
way by trying to revamp her established mode of working over- 
night. While for many dissertation writers, setting a target of a 
certain number of words per day or a certain amount of time 
spent writing is a great tactic, it didn’t help Ellen. She needed 
the pressure of a deadline to produce content. Her first problem 
was that it isn’t possible to write an entire dissertation during 
a coffee-fueled all-nighter. Her second problem was that she 
didn’t suddenly become a different type of writer because she 
was now working on a dissertation. Though habits can and 
should change, one’s tendencies remain the same. Fortunately, 
what has worked in the past can sometimes be adapted to fit the 
needs of dissertation writing as well. 
In conversation with her dissertation coach, Ellen iden- 
tified tactics that had worked for her in the past. While she 
almost always wrote the bulk of her papers the night before 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
65 
they were due, she would usually spend several weeks before 
the final push researching and outlining her ideas. We brain- 
stormed ways Ellen could “lean in” to this tendency, and she 
began scheduling “writing marathons” for herself, a few days 
before the deadlines she and her advisor had agreed upon for 
the completion of sections of her dissertation. Armed with her 
annotated bibliography, scribbled ideas, and some caffeine, she 
produced a twenty-five-page rough draft of her literature review 
over a weekend of late nights. The pressure of the final push 
was important to Ellen’s writing process and enabled her to pro- 
duce better work than she could when she attempted to write 
short sections every day. By determining which sections she was 
prepared to write (in terms of research conducted and outlines 
prepared) and setting clear and non-negotiable deadlines for 
herself, Ellen adapted what had worked for her in the past to 
the dissertation process. 
Think Outside the Box (or the Outline) 
Sometimes a student who’s inculcated with a linear, tradi- 
tional academic writing process can find herself suffocated by 
it. Being open to trying an unusual process can let the writer 
think productively without conventional restraints. 
. 
For her dissertation research, Tasha, a psychology student 
at University of Virginia, interviewed students who had experi- 
enced cognitive dissonance during a university class session. She 
wanted to know what causes the dissonance and how students 
resolve it (or don’t). She transcribed the forty-five-minute inter- 
views with eight students, who varied widely in the causes and 
effects of their dissonance experience. Reading the transcripts 
_ 
for qualitative analysis, she found herself mired in indecision 
66 
PhDONE 
about coding and collecting the students’ discourse into coherent 
themes. She studied conventional coding methods, but they 
weren’t working for her. 
Tasha’s advisor suggested giving up on linear approaches 
and trying a clustering technique instead. This technique 
involves starting with a large blank unlined page; Tasha used a 
big piece of butcher paper. She wrote down two or three poten- 
tial themes from her interviews, listing quotations that related 
to each one in another area, adding new potential themes as she 
thought of them, and drawing arrows between related parts of 
the cluster. When she thought of something new, she could jot 
it down in an area close to related words and she could draw 
arrows to different areas later. 
The clustering technique helped free Tasha from prema- 
turely organizing her ideas and then being unsatisfied with 
them. Though it looked like a big mess, she used it to bring 
her thoughts into focus and tame them into an outline. Her 
final dissertation draft was both logical and insightful, and 
she felt that the clustering exercise was the key to navigating 
the swamp of data she’d collected. She still uses clustering for 
starting major writing projects. 
Recommended Reading 
Ask any professional writer, and they’ll tell you that to 
write well, you need to read a lot. Dissertations or theses are 
no different. Reading dissertations from recent graduates of 
your program is a great way to get a feel of what the expec- 
tations will be for you. You can also probably reach out to 
those recent alumni to ask them questions about their process 
_and get insight into the idiosyncrasies of your specific program, 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
67 
without having to use precious office hours from your advisor. 
Research and academic writing are learned behaviors; very 
rarely is someone naturally adept at these things. Perhaps the 
most easily accessible method to picking up these learned behav- 
iors is through books dedicated to writing, research, grammar, 
and academic work. We’ve found several academic books that 
we return to again and again. These books help break down 
the research and writing process in an easy-to-understand way, 
while providing new things to think about and new avenues to 
pursue in my work, along with inspiration during those tough 
times when we feel like throwing in the towel. Here are some 
of our favorites. 
How to Write a Thesis, by Umberto Eco (translated) 
Translated into English for the first time, scholar Umberto 
Eco’s guide to writing a thesis, which he wrote for his own 
— 
students, provides witty commentary and thoughtful ques- 
tions about the writing process. Irreverent, smart, and sort of 
back-to-basics (it was first published in 1977), this book can 
be especially helpful if you’re dealing with information and/or 
technology overload. Eco describes the thesis-writing process 
from start to finish, providing guidance for newbies and a wise 
refresher to those working on any kind of research project. 
The Craft of Research (4* Edition), by Wayne C. Booth et al. 
This book is a great investment since it’s applicable 
to 
everyone from undergraduates to graduate students to pro-— 
fessionals working on projects in their fields. Written in an 
accessible manner, the material in this book covers everything 
involved with research, from beginning research to writing _ 
findings and revising the final draft. 
68 
PhDONE 
The Elements of Style, by William Strunk, Jr. and E. B. White 
There are other books that contain the phrase “Elements of 
Style,” but Strunk and White’s version has endured for a reason: 
if you’re going to own one book on writing, let it be this one. 
Don’t let the slim volume fool you—this book is packed with 
valuable writing and composition advice. If you’re looking for a 
bit more pizzazz, consider the early 2000s version with Maira 
Kalman’s beautiful illustrations. 
Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe’s Guide to Better English in Plain 
English (3" Edition), by Patricia T. O’Conner 
Grammar can be tricky, but when you’re writing a thesis or 
dissertation, you want to be sure that you’re doing everything 
correctly. This book is a (dare we say it?) fun read on the basics 
(and not-so-basics) of grammar, with many real-world exam- 
ples that illustrate O’Conner’s points. In this new edition, she 
gives spelling and punctuation their own chapters, and the bib- 
liography at the end is worth reviewing. It’s a great book to have 
on hand when a grammar question or concern comes up. 
They Say/l Say: The Moves That Matter in Academic Writing 
(3 Edition), by Gerald Graff and Cathy Birkenstein 
This book is helpful in learning how to structure arguments 
and has a wealth of information about using quotations, sum- 
marizing, crafting unique arguments, keeping your voice, and 
writing in various disciplines and contexts. 
How to Write a Lot: A Practical Guide to Productive Academic 
Writing, by Paul J. Silvia 
Academic writing is different from any other kind of 
writing, as most students know. Whether you’re working on 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
69 
your dissertation or thesis, or whether you’re up against dead- 
lines for articles for professional advancement, productivity is 
key. Unfortunately, stress, anxiety, lack of organization, and 
more can all interfere with successful academic writing—and 
Silvia knows that. This book is an easy-to-read, down-to-earth 
guide to working past roadblocks and using specific techniques 
and tools to increase productivity in your academic writing. 
For books about general writing issues, check these out: 
Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life, by Anne Lamott 
We read chapters of Lamott’s classic Bird by Bird in my very 
first class in graduate school. Since then, I’ve frequently assigned 
it to my own students. Lamott’s book is important for disser- 
tation writers because she acknowledges that writing is hard. 
Sometimes, you don’t feel inspired to write, but you have to per- 
— 
sist anyhow and just get the writing done. Through anecdotes 
about her own life as a writer, and through practical sugges- 
tions, Lamott provides writing strategies that can help you get 
through the tough parts of writing something as ambitious as a 
dissertation. Lamott advises writers to work through a project 
“bird by bird”—that is, one small piece at a time. While her 
advice isn’t specifically about dissertations, this tip can make 
writing a dissertation feel more achievable. 
Vernacular Eloquence: What Speech Can Bring to Writing, 
by Peter Elbow 
Elbow is a composition teacher and the author of a number 
of books about writing. In Vernacular Eloquence, he shows 
how we can use the same sentence structures that we use when 
we speak in our writing. He’s not advocating for a simplistic or 
70 
PhHDONE 
colloquial approach, but rather a more natural approach. Elbow 
argues that by speaking, we learn to use language well, and we 
can use those same skills in good writing. It’s an empowering 
approach, especially for dissertation writers who may not think 
of themselves as writers, or who may find writing difficult. 
Thinking Like Your Editor: How to Write Great Serious Nonfiction 
and Get It Published, by Susan Rabiner 
Rabiner’s goal in this book is to help authors write non- 
fiction that gets published, but she has good tips that can apply 
to dissertation writing, as well. Specifically, her advice to use 
simple structures to communicate complex ideas is an excellent 
framework for creating effective scholarly writing. She also dis- 
cusses how to be persuasive in pitching an idea. This skill can 
come in handy for dissertation writers in the dissertation pro- 
posal stage, when writing abstracts for conference proposals, or 
when writing grant proposals. 
Other Kinds of Graduate School Writing 
Conference Abstracts 
Attending conferences can bea key piece of your professional 
development as well as an enjoyable way to meet colleagues and 
travel. Conferences can take you to cities all over the world, 
making an incredibly welcome change from the confines of a 
library study room. Universities and the conferences themselves 
often offer funding for the travel expenses involved. So, how do 
you get selected to speak at a conference? 
Usually, by submitting an abstract that summarizes the 
paper you plan to give. These tend to range from 100-500 
words, and—like the abstract of your dissertation—include 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
71 
material on the context of the presentation (you'll contextualize 
the contribution, but it’s not a literature review—citations don’t 
tend to have a place in abstracts), your topic/methodology, and 
what you’ve determined/its significance. For conference papers, 
you don’t usually need to have completed the paper already, 
but when you’re writing the abstract, speak as if you have (e.g., 
“this paper shows the significance of .. .” and not “I’m going to 
investigate the significance of __, and I hope to find that. . .”). 
Depending on the conference, you may be able to propose not 
just a paper, but an entire panel consisting of three to five related 
papers. This is a great way to collaborate with like-minded col- 
leagues and further your professional networking. 
Writing a conference paper can be a great complement to 
your dissertation writing process. If you propose a paper that’s 
related to a section of one of your chapters, you have a time- 
sensitive reason to draft it. Make sure to give yourself ample — 
time to write the paper. Has Allen ever been guilty of having 
written a conference paper on the plane to the host city? Maybe, 
but writing it in the weeks leading up to the trip is always pref- 
erable. One of the preeminent scholars in Lauren’s field always 
requested to speak last on his panels, inserted headphones, 
then wrote notes for the talk he was about to deliver while 
his colleagues were speaking, but that is definitely not polite 
or advisable. 
Remember as you write a conference paper that reading 
aloud takes much longer than silent reading, so it’s important to 
practice and time your work. A good rule of thumb is that one 
typed page (double spaced, twelve pt. Times New Roman font) 
takes at least two minutes to read, so ten pages is the absolute 
longest paper you’d want to deliver in a twenty-minute presenta- 
__ 
tion, and making it a little shorter would give you time to slow 
72 
PhDONE 
down and deliver it more engagingly. So, if you find yourself 
trying to finish your essay while flying the friendly skies, you 
can just aim for eight pages. As a bonus to not pushing your 
length to the max, everyone in the room will be grateful that 
you’ve left more time for the Q&A session. 
When delivering a conference paper, general rules of good 
public speaking apply. The more you can speak directly to and 
make eye contact with your audience rather than staring down 
at your notes and reading each word, the more engaging the 
presentation will be. Be careful to stay within the time allowed 
and follow any rules for visual aids, etc., given by the confer- 
ence organizers. Panel discussions also include a time for Q&A. 
This can be a great forum for interesting discussion, but there 
are a couple of common issues to watch out for. Some audience 
members treat the “asking of a question” as an opportunity 
to speak at length about their own research, which can be 
addressed with a reply along the lines of “that’s really inter- 
esting, and is related (cough, very loosely) to the point I made 
about —.” Some individuals will be argumentative for the sake 
of it or ask if you’ve thought about a single obscure point or 
read a single obscure article that is usually key to the individu- 
al’s own research or agenda. To those commentators, a graceful 
“thank you for pointing that out. I’ll be sure to think about/ 
research it” is well-placed. In general, though, such sessions can 
be a great way to develop new ideas for your dissertation or 
your future academic work. 
It’s important to give yourself time to make connections 
and network with colleagues in your field. Don’t blow off the 
cocktail hours, receptions, etc. You might miss out on free 
food and drink, for one thing, but more importantly, these 
are the ideal venues during which to connect with individuals 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
73 
you wouldn’t otherwise have encountered. You may be a social 
butterfly and have no problems in such events, but if you find 
yourself feeling awkward around a room full of new faces, 
try showing interest in the people you meet and asking them 
questions about their studies and their work. You will likely 
find that when you show interest in others, they will return 
the favor! 
Grant Proposals 
Depending on your research and your research needs, 
sometimes you need additional funding through grants. Some 
universities have internal grants. For example, Lauren’s pro- 
gram guaranteed funding for the first three years of the degree, 
but fourth-year funding was competitive and awarded based on 
a proposal for a funding grant. Some universities offer summer 
funding, which enables you to complete important supplemen- 
— 
tary activities like conducting archival research or attending 
conferences. You may also be able to obtain external funding, 
sponsored by different professional bodies in your field, non- 
profits, or governmental organizations. Whether you’re in 
graduate school or working in your field, knowing how to write 
an effective grant proposal is beneficial for obtaining additional 
funding for your project or team. If you’re a professor, securing 
grants can be crucial to your ongoing work and research. Once 
you’re lucky enough to have a grant proposal accepted, you 
then have to submit progress reports and final reports to the 
funding agencies. Importantly, you can’t win a grant if you” 
don’t apply for one. Just going through the process of applying 
puts you ahead of all the others who were too scared to go for 
it. If your proposal is not accepted, you can revise and resubmit ae 
during the next grant cycle using the time in between to develop 
74 
your proposal further and strengthen your case. There’s really 
PhDONE 
nothing to lose by applying. 
Each grant process is a little different, based on your dis- 
cipline and research intentions, but there are some general 
guidelines to keep in mind. Learning some general grant-writing 
tips can help make the process less stressful. 
Here are some basic things to keep in mind for grant 
proposals: 
Before you start writing a grant proposal, it’s usually best to 
have some questions answered, on paper or in your own mind, 
as these can help guide your writing and give you some clarity 
Start early. It never fails; the less time you have for 
a grant proposal, the more things will be thrown 
at you or go wrong, or the more demands on your 
time will suddenly appear. Starting early is never a 
bad thing, no matter what the project—but espe- 
cially grant proposals. 
Read the directions. It sounds simple, but lots of 
people don’t read and follow the directions. Address 
everything they ask, and preemptively answer ques- 
tions that aren’t asked. 
about direction and focus. 
Is this a pilot study? 
Is this for dissertation research? Experimental? 
Fieldwork? Postdoc. work? Are you looking for 
a stipend to buy you some time to write a book, 
or are you seeking funding for a pretty big, 
multiyear study? 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
75 
¢ 
What is the topic, and why is it important? 
e 
What are your research questions, and why do 
they matter? 
e¢ 
What methodology are you using, and what kind of 
research are you doing? 
Not only are these important questions to keep in mind 
before you start your proposal, but they can even help shape 
your funding searches. 
Think about your audience. Who will be reading your pro- 
posal? Does your proposal align with the organization’s mission 
and goals? Are these readers familiar with the kind of research 
you're doing or not? How much background and explanation 
do you need to provide? What kind of material will be most 
persuasive to the selection committee? Most reviewers want to 
know what your goals and outcomes are, why your research/ 
project is significant, and what your criteria for success are. 
Make sure you follow the submission guidelines. This cannot 
be overstated. Follow the guidelines exactly as stated; you aren’t 
exempt, even if you write a note explaining why you haven’t fol- 
lowed the directions. Nothing will discredit you faster than not 
following directions. Follow the headings provided, make sure 
all sections are labeled appropriately and include everything the 
guidelines require. 
| 
Outline your plan clearly, professionally, and logically. 
Your writing will provide the grant committee with a sense 
of who you are as a person and researcher, and it will convey 
your grasp of the material and general knowledge of your topic. 
Being thorough and intentional with your writing will enhance 
your professionalism. Grant proposals aren’t the place to write 
expansively; they favor concise and direct writing. 
76 
PhDONE 
Before you submit your grant proposal, it’s always a good 
idea to ask people who are established in your field to review 
it. You might want a statistician to review your methodology, 
for example. If your grant proposal is rejected, don’t give up! 
Take any feedback to heart and get to work on revising and 
strengthening the proposal to get it ready for the next funding 
cycle. Talk to others in your field or a trusted mentor to see 
where you can improve, and what to keep in mind for the next 
time you submit. Finally, don’t forget to add grants that you’ve 
written to your CV. You can include unawarded grants too. 
Future employers will take notice of your ability to write grants 
and, knowing that it takes practice to learn the skill and that 
many grant proposals are rejected, will likely be inclined to 
give you a shot at writing grants for them. 
Resumes and Curriculum Vitae 
Applying for a new job can be stressful, and often, the key to 
getting your foot in the door for a second look or an interview is 
a well-organized, thoughtful resume or CV. A good resume or 
CV will provide a snapshot of your experience, education, and 
professional interests, but it can be intimidating to organize and 
present everything in a formatted document. 
What’s the difference between a resume and a CV? There 
are usually a few main differences: the purpose, length, and 
formatting. A CV, or curriculum vitae, is typically at least two 
pages long and spans a long period of time. It details educa- 
tional history, awards received, research publications, and so 
forth. It has a lot of details about each entry and doesn’t change 
based on the job to which you’re applying. 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
77 
On the other hand, a resume is a much more concise doc- 
ument and should be two pages at most and is generally only 
one page. It should be adapted to fit best the position to which 
you’re applying, and you usually have a lot more flexibility in 
how this is formatted and what material is covered. While you 
don’t need to rewrite the whole document for each position, 
you can reorganize it to highlight different information. You’ll 
also want to use words from the job description in order to get 
past the algorithms designed to weed out applicants. 
For the most part, in the United States, a CV is usually used 
when applying for a job in academia or research, and a resume 
is used in other situations. 
Dos and Don'ts 
Do include all pertinent information, especially current 
contact information. 
Don’t cover every inch of the page with information. Leave 
enough white space to make it easily readable. Use a simple 
font and minimal embellishment. For a resume, make sure 
it’s tailored to the specific position to which you’re applying. 
Do read it multiple times for spelling, grammar, and punc- 
tuation. A professional editor can provide an objective eye 
and critical feedback, as well as talk with you about what 
you'd like to convey to a potential employer. 
Don’t just focus on submitting the resume or CV as fast as 
—~ 
possible after hearing about the job. This is the first impres- 
sion the selection committee will have of you; make it a 
good one. 
78 
PhHDONE 
Do highlight your achievements and accomplishments, 
include soft skills (e.g., communication competencies), and 
include membership in professional organizations. 
Don’t embellish your experience, awards, or employment. 
Be honest with your resume or CV. If you’ve misrepresented 
yourself, chances are, this will come back to haunt you, and 
could even result in termination from employment. 
Do use active voice. 
Don’t use passive voice. 
Do model your CV after your professors (copies of which 
are likely on their faculty web pages). 
Don’t try to get too fancy with your layout and/or font 
selection. Keep it simple. 
Consider sending your resume or CV to a professional 
editing service to polish it up and ensure proper formatting. 
A professional, objective outsider can provide you with fresh 
eyes and expert advice on how to make it the best it can be. 
It’s more than a truism that you have to spend money to make 
money. If you put in the effort and the resources to make a 
professional CV, then you will be taken more seriously by 
prospective employers. 
Finally, and perhaps the most important “do” on this list, 
is to articulate to your prospective employer how valuable the 
experience of having completed a dissertation is. You may 
have learned to research and apply for grants, secure funding 
for your work; you cultivated professional time management 
skills, balancing the dissertation writing process with the rest 
of your work and life; you developed impeccable research 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
79 
skills, sifting through endless articles and books and synthe- 
sizing their ideas into a summary of the state of a whole field; 
you conducted original research on your subject, and/or devel- 
oped new ideas on it. You contributed to human knowledge. 
While many of these things are taken for granted among the 
academic community, they are laudable skills, so it’s worth 
spending time curating the verbiage you'll use to describe them 
on your resume and in your cover letter, and selecting the anec- 
dotes that provide the best evidence of your professionalism for 
use in an interview setting. 
Cover Letters 
Cover letters are a great place to explain in detail skills and 
experiences (like having written a dissertation!) that make you 
a great fit for a particular role, but which may require more 
space than the resume format allows. There are two keys to a / 
great cover letter. First, it has to show what separates you from 
other candidates who may have similar qualifications. Second, 
it should confirm for your prospective employer that you'll not 
only be able to perform the function of the role, but will also fit 
into the organizational culture and that your values align with 
those of the company. To accomplish this, a good cover letter 
must be carefully tailored to the job in question. While you can 
probably use the same resume, or close to it, for multiple job 
applications (maybe with tweaks to what you emphasize and 
your professional summary), a cover letter really needs to be 
specific to the job listing. Few things make a hiring manager 
lose interest in a candidate’s application faster than realizing 
their cover letter was written in response to a different role. If 
it’s worth applying for the job, it’s worth rewriting your cover 
letter to be considered for it. 
80 
PhDONE 
Plagiarism 
Plagiarism is a serious problem in academia, even at the 
graduate-school level, and new tools like the GPT-3 chatbot are 
only making the problem worse. But humans are much greater 
offenders than AI for dissertation plagiarism. If you Google 
“write my dissertation,” you'll find fields of dissertation writing 
mills. We sometimes have prospective clients who email Disser- 
tation Editor and ask us to write their dissertations for them. 
We reply to them and explain that that would be plagiarism and 
could potentially cause them to be kicked out of school. 
So, what is plagiarism? Thankfully, academic plagiarism 
has definite parameters. While each university (and often each 
doctoral program) has its own code of academic conduct, most 
of them share a basic definition of plagiarism. In short, pla- 
giarism is committed when you present someone else’s idea 
as your own or fail to properly cite information from preex- 
isting sources. There are three basic forms of plagiarism: 1.) 
Using the exact wording from an existing source (e.g., book, 
article, newspaper, or class lecture) without using quotation 
marks to identify the quoted content and citing its source; 2.) 
Describing or appropriating concepts or information learned 
from another source without citing it; and 3.) Having someone 
else write your paper for you. Simply put, if you include words 
or ideas that aren’t yours and present them as if they were, that 
is plagiarism. 
Leroy, a psychology student at Capella university, sent us a 
lengthy dissertation on marriage and trauma in Haitian culture. 
Much of his project came from his experience as a marriage 
counselor working to help Haitian couples reject a Haitian out- 
look that expected the trauma of a broken cultural history to 
assert itself in their relationships. But to provide a background 
of critical perspectives that helped contextualize Haitian 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
81 
trauma, Leroy had, in no uncertain terms, ransacked Encyclo- 
pedia Britannica. An editor met with Leroy and listened to him 
talk about the stress of working on the dissertation for the past 
seven years while teaching adjunct classes at two colleges. He 
was desperate to finish the project and without a plan or the 
wherewithal for developing his ideas, he had tried recycling the 
encyclopedia. His editor helped Leroy steer away from plagia- 
rism by asking him questions about what was central to his 
study. He came away from that meeting with a refocused under- 
standing of what his project was. Leroy and his editor listed out 
his main ideas and pinpointed what he should develop. 
Plagiarism can be as short as four words in a row or as 
long and vague as your dissertation’s entire premise. Whether 
intentional or inadvertent, it is critically important to be careful 
by avoiding plagiarism throughout the dissertation writing pro- 
cess. Aside from being dishonest, one of the main problems with ' 
academic plagiarism is that it undermines the scholarly pro- 
cess. Plagiarism steals from the hard work of previous scholars 
without giving credit where it is due. And it steals from your 
readers’ perceptions of you and your contribution to the field. 
Your dissertation is meant to be an original piece of scholar- 
ship that offers new insights into your field of study. While your 
dissertation will be supported and corroborated by a wealth of 
previous literature, it must be clear exactly how your original 
ideas are situated within the scholarship of your field. 
Whether intentional or not, plagiarism’s risks far outweigh 
any possible benefit. Unintentional plagiarism may just bring a 
stiff reprimand from your doctoral advisor and an order that 
you rewrite the offending passages. However, if the plagiarism 
is proven 
to be intentional, then you may be expelled from your 
— 
university and barred from realizing your dream of earning your 
PhD. Your PhD experience will be done, but in the worst way. 
82 
PhDONE 
But the temptation to plagiarize comes easily with the con- 
stant availability of an endless stream of information available 
through the Internet. Copying and pasting information from 
a book or a website into your working document takes only a 
few seconds, but the Information Age has also made it easier for 
inquiring minds to catch those who have played fast and loose 
with their sources. Websites like Turnitin, iThenticate, and Pla- 
gium make it very easy for your advisor to tell if your content 
is the least bit unoriginal. Most universities have institutional 
accounts for plagiarism-checking software and will submit your 
dissertation for analysis before accepting it. Not only will these 
sites show what content has been plagiarized, they will also 
reveal the source from which the content was derived. More 
simply, one can just copy questionable phrases from your paper 
and put them into Google to see if there is potential plagiarism. 
Plagiarism-checking software tends to return the amount 
of text that matches other sources as a percentage, and dif- 
ferent institutions may have different requirements (e.g., under 
10 percent, under 20 percent). Remember that your target isn’t 
and can’t be 0 percent, (because presumably you’ve quoted from 
existing texts, referenced articles that have also been referenced 
in other published scholarship, and used common expressions 
or phrases in your writing—and the plagiarism detector will 
flag citations too, so it really is impossible to achieve a 0 per- 
cent on a plagiarism report), but the bigger the number, the 
more likely a plagiarism issue is present. 
Plagiarism is a danger, even if you don’t mean to do it. 
Lazy practices such as not using quotation marks around 
unique phrases can leave you vulnerable to what can best be 
termed “accidental plagiarism.” The verdict is still out on 
whether the late historian Stephen Ambrose intentionally used 
identical phrases from another historian (Kirkpatrick, 2002a). 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
83 
Ambrose apologized publicly, though he argued that he was 
merely guilty of sloppy research practices rather than academic 
dishonesty. His reputation was forever tarnished as a result 
(Kirkpatrick, 2002a). Don’t let something similar happen to 
your dissertation after years of grueling doctoral research! Be 
careful to cite ALL your sources. Make sure also to investigate 
your advisor’s and institution’s expectations and definitions 
surrounding self-plagiarism. Often, work that even you your- 
self have previously completed and submitted for academic 
credit or published (i.e., a relevant term paper for a graduate 
seminar) is also off limits, as it’s not original to your disser- 
tation. Although, you can and should quote your previously 
published work. 
To avoid plagiarism, quotation marks and parentheses may 
be your most important allies. Use them religiously during the 
draft phases of the dissertation writing process. Never assume > 
that you’ll remember to go back and add a citation at a later 
point in the process; enough time might pass that you forget 
where you found the information or even that it was a quotation. 
Even if you’ve only used three or four words strung together 
that you liked from another source, quote and cite them. In 
academia, especially in the humanities, it’s difficult to over-cite 
your sources. Those reading your work prefer to see the foot- 
print of where you have been intellectually (i.e., what you have 
read and how you came to your conclusions). When in doubt, 
err on the side of caution and cite your source. Remember that 
it is much easier, and will save you time in the long run, to cite 
your sources correctly when you first identify them during the 
research process. If you assume you’ll remember where you read 
the information or leave yourself a note saying, “find this cita- 
tion later,” it’s likely to take double the time, and your future 
self won’t thank you for it! 
: 
84 
PhDONE 
That said, while you should always cite your sources, your 
dissertation committee does not want to read a dissertation full 
of quotations. Overusing quotations implies to the reader that 
you don’t have anything original to say. You should paraphrase 
(i.e., completely rewrite) and synthesize quotations into your 
own thoughts and words as much as possible, especially with 
secondary sources. Just don’t forget that paraphrased mate- 
rial still requires a source citation, including the page number 
or page range. While directly quoting primary sources can be 
necessary for some disciplines (history and religious studies in 
particular), the dissertation should generally be replete with your 
own thoughts and insights about primary source content and 
previous scholarship. Avoid direct quotations whenever possible 
and certainly never begin or end your paragraphs with them. 
Another helpful tool to avoid plagiarism is citation and 
research management software like Endnote, Ref Works, or the 
open-source Firefox extension, Zotero. These programs can 
help you organize your sources and centralize your research in 
one place. You can also download important articles and texts 
to keep them readily available for later use. This way, if you 
wonder whether a certain phrase is yours or someone else’s, you 
can do a quick online search to be sure. There are pros and cons 
to using citation and referencing software, which will be dis- 
cussed in greater detail in the section titled “Citation Software 
Systems: Pros, Cons, and an Overview of Options.” 
The simplest advice is don’t plagiarize! It might seem like a 
little sloppy source work increases the efficiency of the disser- 
tation process, but aside from being intellectually deceitful and 
putting you in danger of expulsion, it is also counterproductive 
to your long-term career viability. Pulitzer Prize-winning his- 
torian Doris Kearns Goodwin had to resign from the Pulitzer 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
85 
committee and from the PBS MacNeil-Lehrer News Hour after 
it came to light that she had used significant portions of another 
book in her 1987 work on the Kennedy family (Kirkpatrick, 
2002b). She is not the first prominent scholar to lose credibility, 
and by no means will she be the last. Luckily, with some careful 
effort, plagiarism is easy to avoid, and you can turn in your dis- 
sertation confident that it is completely original writing. 
When to Start From Scratch 
Joe, who was working on his doctorate in communication 
at CU Boulder, came to us for editing of his literature review 
chapter on interpersonal communication theory, a sixty-page 
behemoth with hundreds of sources included. His editor was 
about fifteen pages into the chapter when the drastic shifts in 
his writing style started to feel fishy. She copied a passage of 
text into Google and found that some sections of the chapter 
. 
were lifted from a 2007 dissertation on almost exactly the same 
topic. We let Joe know that we’d have to stop editing until he 
addressed the plagiarism issue. Joe had come across the disser- 
tation early in his research, and it contained exactly the same 
seminal research on his topic he needed to cite, so he added most 
of its sources—and some of its text—directly into his annotated 
bibliography. The other author’s words made their way into his 
chapter, and a huge plagiarism issue arose. 
Joe wanted to fix the problem, so he set to work revising 
the chapter. He came back to us for editing again, telling us the 
plagiarism was all fixed. The editor set to work on the chapter, 
but soon found that the problem remained. Joe had done a great 
deal of work on paraphrasing, so none of the 2007 dissertation’s 
exact words remained, but Joe was still plagiarizing. He still 
cited the same studies as the 2007 dissertation and synthesized 
86 
PhDONE 
their significance in the same way. Even though nothing had 
been copied and pasted into this revised version, Joe was still 
using someone else’s ideas and work. 
Eventually, Joe found that if he wanted to complete his lit- 
erature review the right way, he’d have to start over. The other 
author’s views on the subject were too ingrained in this version, 
so he went back to the drawing board—reading key articles again 
and interpreting them from his own perspective. Eventually, a 
stronger chapter with a different argument emerged, and Joe sub- 
mitted original work to his advisor. Sometimes, whether it’s a 
whole chapter or a shorter section, it’s worth considering whether 
it’s necessary to start over, rather than revise existing work. This 
applies not only to plagiarism but sometimes also to major revi- 
sions. If a chapter section requires major organizational and 
content changes, make sure to pause and think about whether 
revising the text that’s already there is the most efficient way to 
move forward. Sometimes it will be, but there are cases where 
gritting your teeth and starting with a clean slate will actually 
save you time and make your life easier. Remember that whether 
or not you use any of the same words from the first draft in the 
finished dissertation, the ideas and research behind them are still 
there, and the previous drafts were anything but wasted effort. 
| Writer’s Block 
We’re tempted to say something controversial here. In fact, 
we will: writer’s block doesn’t really exist, at least not in the 
context of a dissertation. Is it sometimes impossible to find 
words that feel aligned with the importance of the ideas you 
have? Absolutely. Will you spend more time than you care to 
admit staring at a blank document or piece of paper during 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
87 
your writing career? Yes, you will. Does the whole thing some- 
times feel insurmountable? It definitely does. 
However, it’s easy to give the term “writer’s block” too 
much power, and at times even use it as an excuse: “I would 
have finished my literature review chapter, but I had writer’s 
block.” A useful shift in mindset entails having realistic, flex- 
ible goals for completing different types of writing work and 
writing preparation work. It also includes thinking strategically 
about when you’re most likely to accomplish different pieces of 
that writing work. If you sit down at your computer with the 
sole goal of creating a brilliant concluding sentence for your dis- 
sertation that includes a witty pun and encapsulates the core of 
your ideas, you may not be able to do that. If you sit down to 
achieve a piece of work to advance your progress toward com- 
pleting your conclusion, you’re much more likely to walk away 
from your desk having written something. 
You may discover 
that, by forcing yourself to write, you discover thoughts that 
you didn’t know you had. Or, perhaps, it’s that you didn’t have 
those thoughts until you gave yourself the time to have them. 
More than any other cause, writers can block themselves by not 
writing. Don’t be your own block! 
Give Yourself Permission to Pivot 
As discussed earlier in this chapter, different writers work 
differently, and it’s important to play to your strengths. How- 
ever, even if you’re the most linear and organized of writers, a 
dissertation cannot be written one word at a time in a row. If 
you get stuck on the paragraph you’re working on, give your- 
self permission to shift your attention to a section that comes 
more easily. Really don’t feel like trying to write is the best use 
of your time right now? Better to acknowledge that and shift 
88 
PhDONE 
your attention elsewhere. Is there an article you need to read 
and make notes on? Been meaning to clean up your reference 
list? Those tasks might be a better use of your time. 
Use Your Most Productive Time Well 
It’s important to know yourself and to identify when your 
brain is most likely to be capable of its most critical thinking. 
Think about when you do your best work. Early in the morning? 
Late at night? In a particular workspace, or when your desk is 
set up in a certain way? Identify your optimal time and situa- 
tion, and make sure to use that to sit down to accomplish the 
trickiest pieces of dissertation writing. 
Though many writers like using various websites as writing 
tools, if you find that the Internet is a distraction, you may want 
to turn off your Wi-Fi, and it may be best to silence your phone 
and put it in a drawer during your assigned writing time. On 
one occasion when Lauren was trying to research for an under- 
graduate term paper, she turned to her roommate to complain 
about how easy it is to get distracted, quickly toggling from 
the browser window containing research to the one containing 
social media accounts. “Why don’t you try using self-control?” 
Lauren’s roommate asked. “I’m trying,” Lauren opined back, 
offended, before her roommate told her that self-control was 
the name of a free app that blocks your access to certain web- 
sites for a set duration, while allowing you to use the Internet 
for other research. Self-control, both in the real sense and the 
virtual one, can help you create a space to work on your writing 
for an extended period of time. On the other hand, don’t forget 
to give your eyes and wrists a break. Look out of a window for 
half a minute now and then. Get up and stretch. Consider taking 
a short walk to think about your idea. Or better yet, don’t think 
THE WRITE APPROACH TO CRAFTING YOUR DISSERTATION 
89 
about your idea for a little bit. Let your mind run things over 
in the background. Do a chore. Run an errand. Something as 
simple as brushing your teeth may work wonders. 
Find Strategies to Get Unstuck 
Ben, who was writing a philosophy dissertation at the Uni- 
versity of Washington, had a habit of spending hours staring at 
the same sentence in his dissertation, unable to move on until he 
felt that the words and flow were exactly right. Try as he might, 
whatever strategies he implemented, he had a hard time shifting 
his attention to other aspects of the dissertation or even doing 
other dissertation work until he felt that the words he was writing 
at the time were perfect. To get out of his own way, he had to get 
away from the computer. He took to recording himself speaking 
using his cell phone while he took long, meandering drives 
through the rainy streets of Seattle. When he got home, he’d tran- 
scribe what he’d recorded, and was suddenly able to organize and 
refine his thoughts once he had a first draft on paper. 
Now that you have selected your topic, taken a realistic 
look at the work-life balance challenges that might emerge, put 
together your team of experts to guide you through the process, 
prepared yourself for possible challenges that might emerge 
when dealing with those experts, and established a foundation 
for good writing practices, it’s time to start your dissertation. In 
the chapters that follow, we will walk you through the nuts and 
bolts of dissertation preparation from conducting background 
research to acing your defense. It’s a long journey with many 
steps along the way! However, with our road map, you'll at least 
have a sense of where you’re headed and not feel like each new 
chapter is uncharted territory. 
re Bis 
Sgeises, fodiens wig 
T
et
CHAPTER 5 
Off the Starting Blocks: 
How to Begin Your 
Dissertation 
There are several milestones to reach during the dissertation 
writing process. Rest assured as you meet these milestones, 
step-by-step, you are getting closer to achieving your goal: get- 
ting your dissertation approved by the university. One of the 
first milestones is to have your topic approved by your advi- 
sor. If your study dissertation process includes conducting 
research, once you have agreed on a research topic, you will 
want to create a research proposal to send for ethical approval 
that includes the background of your topic, your research ques- 
tions, hypotheses, and detailed information on your methodol- 
ogy. You will likely submit your proposal for ethical approval 
to your university’s institutional review board (IRB). In some 
cases, if you are working with participants from certain organ- 
izations, they may have their own ethics committee that would 
need to approve your proposal as well. Once you have obtained 
91 
92 
PhDONE 
ethical approval, you can begin the data collection process. 
Often, collecting data is time consuming and, therefore, this is 
a good time to start writing your literature review and meth- 
odology chapters and send them to your advisor to review and 
provide feedback. 
After your data have been collected and your hypotheses 
tested, you can begin to write up your results and discus- 
sion chapters, which you should also send to your advisor to 
review and provide feedback as you go. Once your advisor has 
approved all your chapters, it’s time to send the entire disserta- 
tion draft to your committee to review and provide feedback. 
When your committee has agreed that your draft is ready, 
you can submit your final draft for approval by the Dean if 
required (again, this process depends on your university, so be 
sure to consult your graduate student handbook regularly to 
make sure you’re taking all required steps). 
This chapter addresses the first several elements and chap- 
ters you'll need to work toward to lay the foundation for your 
dissertation. First, it addresses various strategies for organizing 
the dissertation, before moving to a discussion of what should 
be included in your abstract and introduction. It concludes 
with an extended discussion of the literature review chapter 
and the process of identifying and vetting sources to include. 
Dissertation Organization 
If you are unclear what your dissertation should include, 
there is a basic five-chapter formula you can follow outlined in 
the next section. While this formula is often followed by PhD 
students, others may find their dissertations require additional 
chapters or a different layout completely. If you are unsure of 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOW TO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
93 
which structure you want to follow for your particular project, 
the five-chapter formula is a great place to start. 
The Five-Chapter Formula 
Writing a dissertation is a significant undertaking, but 
the good thing is that you’re not reinventing the wheel. Most 
dissertations follow a standard five-chapter formula. In some 
disciplines, like the fine arts and some social sciences like eco- 
nomics, dissertations can take different forms or have different 
components. However, most disciplines follow the five-chapter 
model. Even within the five-chapter rubric, different areas of 
study may have some variation in each chapter. Your graduate 
program will provide you with specific guidelines that your 
school and program require. 
The basic chapter headings of a dissertation generally include: 
e 
Chapter 1: Introduction 
e 
Chapter 2: Literature Review 
¢ 
Chapter 3: Methodology 
e 
Chapter 4: Results 
e 
Chapter 5: Discussion and Conclusion 
These might look very different based on whether you’re 
doing 
a qualitative 
versus quantitative 
dissertation, 
but 
these are the general chapter themes that typically compose 
a dissertation. 
While most dissertations follow the standard five-chapter 
outline, there are always exceptions. Find out what your pro- 
gram requires and if there are any variations on this method of 
organization. Become familiar with what your specific program 
_ 
94 
PhDONE 
wants and proceed accordingly. In what follows, I’ll provide tips 
and suggestions for how to tackle each of these chapters, so that 
you can prepare yourself for the writing process when you reach 
that stage of your dissertation. 
Other Organizational Options 
While most dissertations follow the five-chapter for- 
mula, some fields or departments offer different choices or 
more flexibility. In the humanities, for instance, the orga- 
nizational structure may be entirely up to the dissertation 
writer. There may not even be a specific requirement for the 
number of chapters required. If this is the case, be sure to 
work closely with your advisor to ensure that your expecta- 
tions are the same. For instance, Aaron, who was studying 
anthropology at the University of British Columbia, dealt 
with an unexpected challenge near the end of his writing 
process, when he realized that he had a five-chapter disser- 
tation planned, but his advisor was expecting him to write 
six chapters, including one solely devoted to his theoretical 
framework. Fortunately, he was able to make the case that it 
made more sense to expand the length of his existing chapters 
with additional theory rather than add an entirely new one, 
but the outcome could have been much more disastrous. If 
you are permitted flexibility, extra caution and communica- 
tion during the planning and outlining process can save you 
a great deal of headache. 
If you are allowed to determine your own organizational 
structure, be sure to spend an ample amount of time thinking 
about how it makes the most sense to you to break down your 
ideas, as well as what will make the most sense for your reader. 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOW TO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
95 
A few options are thematic, chronological, and compartmen- 
talized. Take, for example, a literature dissertation on the work 
of Leo Tolstoy. A thematic approach might deal with different 
aspects of the texts in different chapters (Chapter 1: War in 
Tolstoy’s Work; Chapter 2: Peace in Tolstoy’s Work; Chapter 3: 
Tolstoy’s Use of Natural vs Mechanical Imagery). A chronolog- 
ical option might break the structure down into time periods 
(Chapter 1: Tolstoy’s Early Work; Chapter 2: Middle Period; 
Chapter 3: Tolstoy’s Late Work). 
Acompartmentalized approach 
might address one text in each chapter (Chapter 1: The Death 
of Ivan Ilyich; Chapter 2: Anna Karenina; Chapter 3: War and 
Peace). In any of these examples, our budding Tolstoy expert’s 
dissertation is much too broad, and they should return to the 
section on selecting a topic, but the principles and options 
remain the same. 
More recently, some institutions have allowed writers to’ 
produce dissertations composed of three self-contained arti- 
cles. A great way to move from dissertation to publication, 
writers of this type of dissertation write each of the chapters 
(usually three of them, plus an introduction and conclusion) 
as if it is an article for publication in a:certain target journal. 
This means that there is likely some amount of repetition (the 
literature review of each article might be similar, for example), 
which is an important question to raise with your advisor. 
If this type of dissertation is an option, be sure to pay close 
attention to the requirements of your target journals and the 
types of pieces they publish during the planning process. 
Done right, this type of dissertation can lead very quickly and 
seamlessly into an emerging scholar’s first (or first of several) 
publication. 
96 
PhDONE 
Writing Your Abstract 
What Is an Abstract? 
An abstract is a succinct piece of writing that tells potential 
readers what a paper, book, dissertation, or other text is about. 
Abstracts are short and highly informative. For most APA proj- 
ects, they tend to be between 150 and 250 words long (American 
Psychological Association, 2020). They should entice readers, 
make them interested in your work, and help them determine 
if they want to read your paper, dissertation, or project in its 
entirety. Although the abstract is located at the beginning of 
the dissertation and is one of the first aspects of your disserta- 
tion that the reader will see, it isn’t the first piece of writing you 
should start with—in fact, it’s often the last, as it is essentially a 
summary of your project. 
When Do Dissertation Writers Use Abstracts? 
You may be required to submit an abstract of your dis- 
sertation as part of your dissertation proposal. In addition, 
dissertation writers are often required to include an abstract of 
their dissertation when they submit the final version to their 
dissertation committee, dissertation advisor, or institution. 
As discussed in the previous chapter, if you decide to present 
a paper or a part of your dissertation at an academic confer- 
ence, you will likely need to submit an abstract as part of the 
application process. Similarly, if you decide to publish a chapter 
of your dissertation in a book or in a journal, you will likely 
need to submit an abstract to the editor. Applications for grants 
and fellowships also frequently call for abstracts of your disser- 
tation or research. Even though abstracts are short (journals, 
conferences, and academic departments have different length 
requirements), they need to pack a punch. The abstract should 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOW TO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
97 
be a concise description of the work and should make sense by 
itself, even to someone who hasn’t read the full dissertation. 
Points Your Abstract Should Address 
Your abstract should include several points. Be sure to 
include the following with your abstract: 
e 
What problem are you addressing? 
e 
Why should the reader care about your research 
problem and the results? There are thousands of 
research papers available; why should yours be the 
one they want to read? 
e 
What methods did you use to solve this problem? 
e 
What were your results? 
e 
What are the implications of your findings in your 
field and in general? Can your results be general- 
ized to wider populations? 
| 
Precise Language 
Writing an abstract can be difficult. Your job is to com- 
municate lots of information using a limited number of words. 
You only have a few sentences to devote to the elements out- 
lined above. This requires precise, effective, and evocative use of 
language. Choose each word carefully to convey your intended 
meaning. Active voice is preferable to passive voice in abstracts, 
just as it is in effective academic writing more generally. 
Considerations 
When writing your abstract, keep in mind the keywords that 
people will search for when looking for your paper. Include these 
_ 
important keywords in your abstract so your work will appear 
in their search results. Each journal, conference, or academic 
98 
PhDONE 
program may have different specifications for an abstract. So, 
make sure you’re familiar with the specific submission guide- 
lines for your project. In carpentry, the saying “measure twice, 
cut once” is a watchword, given that once the board is cut, it 
can’t be uncut. While you can “uncut” the changes you make 
to your article, it can be time-consuming and frustrating to do 
so. That’s why it’s always better to map out exactly what is 
required before starting. 
Writing Your Introduction 
When you work on your dissertation, you submit chapters 
to your advisor, your chair, and perhaps an editor. You might 
even have a dissertation critique group and share chapters with 
each other. Many students write the introduction first as they 
begin their process, knowing that they will have to edit it dra- 
matically after completing all the other chapters. Once you’ve 
written the entire dissertation, you have a better idea of the goals 
of your paper and the aim of your study. With the other chap- 
ters completed, you will know how to introduce those chapters 
without repeating yourself. The trick of writing an introduc- 
tion is to craft this information in such a way that it will hook 
the reader, orient them to your project, and give them a road 
map of what to expect throughout the dissertation. One of the 
pitfalls of writing an introduction is inadvertently repeating 
yourself. In good-quality writing, the same sentence should not 
appear more than once in the document. Avoid the urge to copy 
and paste to or from your other chapters. Even though you are 
supposed to keep your thesis and your main claims visible to 
your reader, you have to develop those claims simultaneously. 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
99 
You will want to repeat keywords and consider your ideas in 
different ways, but copying and pasting—even when you are 
copying and pasting your own writing—is never the right move. 
Goals of the Introduction 
The introduction should inform the reader about the back- 
ground of the topic, the gap in the literature, and how you are 
going to fill that gap. It should also emphasize why your research 
is unique, what you are adding to the conversation about this 
topic, and where your work fits in within a larger context. Most 
importantly, why should the reader care about what you have 
to say? What were your findings? What are the implications of 
those findings? You want to prepare the reader for the rest of 
your dissertation. Think of it like this: give the reader an overall 
idea of your paper, then give them the specifics. Reading other 
completed dissertations, scholarly textbooks, and/or journal’ 
articles to see how those writers handle the introduction can be 
very helpful. 
Points to Remember 
The introduction should give the reader an overall preview 
and outline of the paper; however, it also needs to have some 
specific, practical goals. You need to explain your methodology. 
Why did you choose the tools you used for your research? How 
did you use them? What influenced your decisions? You also 
need to define your key terms. Yes, your readers will most likely 
be in your field and many laypeople may also know your key 
terms, but different people may come to different understand- 
ings of a term, and you need to define how you are using it in 
your dissertation. 
100 
PhDONE 
Writing the Literature Review 
The first phase of writing a dissertation is conducting a 
detailed review of literature in your field to determine which 
topics researchers have already addressed and which they have 
not. Before we delve into the intricacies of the literature review 
process, it’s worth noting that it can be one of the most labor- 
intensive parts of the dissertation process. It involves a significant 
amount of reading, and many dissertation writers underesti- 
mate the time they will spend searching for articles, reviewing 
abstracts to determine if they are relevant, taking notes on the 
important aspects of those sources, organizing those notes, syn- 
thesizing them into a thematically organized framework, and 
writing the literature review chapter itself. 
Helen, a busy professional who was completing her psy- 
chology dissertation through National University, had difficulty 
finding time to work on her dissertation and was stranded in 
her literature review. She was not sure of her research question, 
so the choice of what to include remained unclear. Then, in a 
History of Psychology class, she was asked to complete an in- 
class writing assignment about a personal experience with Kurt 
Lewin’s three stages of change (unfreezing, change, refreezing). 
This is what Helen wrote: 
“Two years ago, I decided to train for my first marathon. 
Although I was already a moderate runner at the time, 
I knew that training for a marathon would involve a 
drastic change to my daily schedule and sleep and eating 
habits. Looking back on the experience, I can see how Kurt 
Lewin’s three-step process of change occurred during my 
training months. 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
101 
The unfreezing stage began when I made the initial deci- 
sion to begin training. I started reading about the process 
online and decided to follow a four-month-long, structured 
training schedule. I began preparations by purchasing a new 
pair of running shoes, ordering supplies like a water bottle 
belt and energy gels for my long runs, looking up carb and 
protein-heavy meals, and setting a start date for my training 
runs to begin. 
During the change stage, I implemented the training 
schedule and alterations to my daily routine. Prior to this 
process, I would often run in the evenings. After starting 
training, I had to restructure my days so that I could run 
early in the morning, which meant that I had to sleep ear- 
lier in the evening. I also implemented new stretches and 
set aside two mornings each week for cross-training exer- 
cises. Transitioning my sleep and wake cycle was difficult 
to adjust to, but gradually this became easier. I also had to 
start refusing late-night activities with friends if I had an 
early morning long run scheduled the next day. 
I adjusted to my new routine as I entered the freezing 
stage. I experienced greater stability and found it easier to 
follow the morning training schedule. Even after completing 
the marathon, I have maintained the routine of running in 
the morning instead of the evening. I also periodically go for 
long runs on the weekend and implement the same meals 
and sleep routine that I used during my training months. 
I ran my second marathon this past January and found the 
training process to be much easier to transition into since 
I have incorporated many of the training behaviors into my 
daily routine.” 
102 
PhDONE 
When Helen got her writing back, she found that her pro- 
fessor had praised it and had written, “I wish all dissertation 
writers would realize that they have to give something up, like 
you did for marathoning!” This comment smacked Helen in the 
face. Even though the professor didn’t know her dissertation 
dilemma, the remark spurred a new direction for Helen’s prog- 
ress. She realized that if she could make such big changes in her 
life to run a marathon, she could also do so to write her disser- 
tation. Why in the world did she think she didn’t have to revamp 
her lifestyle to complete such an important project? Once Helen 
started to plan her dissertation work in stages analogous to 
her marathon training, giving up some beloved activities and 
adding goal-directed actions, her dissertation took form, and 
she completed her defense a semester earlier than expected. 
Now, whenever she takes on a major endeavor, she asks herself, 
“What am I going to give up? What do I need to freeze? What 
new mindset do I need?” 
While the literature review process might be something of 
a marathon, this process of research can help you find novel 
approaches to old questions or help you discover ways to apply 
tried and true methods to new and understudied situations. In 
the modern era, information is easily accessible via the Internet. 
There’s no shortage of conversations happening online about 
every possible subject; however, not all this information is reli- 
able or suitable for use in scholarly writing. It’s important to 
distinguish “scholarly sources” from the rest and only rely on 
those scholarly sources when conducting research. 
A scholarly source is another term for a peer-reviewed 
source, which means that the book or article has gone through 
a process of peer review to ensure that its methods and findings 
are sound, well-argued, and worthy of publication. The term 
N 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTOBEGINYOURDISSERTATION 
103 
“peer review” is critical because it is this process of scholarly 
vetting that ensures only rigorous and well-researched mate- 
rial is published. Not all scholarly sources are research studies. 
Some examples of scholarly sources include articles from aca- 
demic journals, published theses or dissertations, conference 
proceedings, handbooks, and monographs. But you have to 
look closely at any source. Some so-called academic journals 
are predatory journals that will publish anything so long as the 
writer pays for publication. And some so-called monographs 
are self-published and did not receive a traditional peer review. 
Remember, the key distinction between vetted sources and non- 
vetted sources is whether the publication has gone through a 
peer-review process. 
So, what types of sources are not scholarly sources? Things 
like newspaper or magazine articles, book reviews, advocacy or 
opinion-based articles and essays, and pretty much any sources 
. 
that don’t contain references are not peer-reviewed or scholarly 
texts. Articles about scholarly topics written by journalists may 
still be factually correct and worthwhile but are not considered 
scholarly sources. While these have their place in certain kinds 
of papers and writing, they’re typically not appropriate for a 
thesis or dissertation. Most websites are not scholarly sources, 
including encyclopedia pages, Healthline, and Wikipedia. 
These should never be used for a thesis or dissertation: espe- 
cially Wikipedia, as with a wiki, anyone can update or alter the 
content. Therefore, it is never a credible academic source, even 
if much of the content may be correct. Likewise, websites like 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are cred- 
ible, but not necessarily scholarly. 
: 
Trade publications can be tricky. These are often magazines 
or journals in a specific industry or field. Examples include 
\ 
104 
PhDONE 
Library Journal, Attorney at Law Magazine, and Psychology 
Today. While they might seem like scholarly sources because of 
their specialized nature, they’re popular sources for the general 
public and aren’t appropriate to use for your research project. 
That said, they still have value. They can be a great place to 
start your background reading on your topic and can work as a 
general information hub to point you toward scholarly sources 
or trends to explore further in academic journal articles. In 
other words, feel free to use non-scholarly sources for your own 
personal exploration of a topic, but when it comes time to start 
writing, restrict your citations to scholarly sources only and 
make sure that you can back up your claims with information 
gathered from scholarly sources. 
So where do you find scholarly sources? University libraries 
usually have a reference desk, and research librarians can be 
invaluable resources for any questions you have during your 
dissertation research process. Online, scholarly sources are 
typically found in databases like JSTOR, PsycINFO, Pro- 
Quest, Sage Journals, EBSCOhost, and ScienceDirect. Your 
school library will usually provide access to these databases as 
part of your tuition and fees. Academic databases occasionally 
have non-scholarly articles or reviews, but most have an easy 
way to restrict your search for only peer-reviewed sources. 
Google Scholar is another option, but again, you need to do 
_ 
your research on the journal that comes up and make sure that 
it’s peer-reviewed. 
Going back to Leroy and his research on Haitian trauma, 
you might recall that he had plagiarized from Encyclopedia Bri- 
tannica, meaning that Leroy had two strikes against him. Not 
only had he heavily plagiarized, but he also plagiarized from a 
non-scholarly source, meaning not only did he need to get rid of 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
105 
the plagiarism in his project, but he also needed to go back to 
the research stage to obtain acceptable sources. 
Use common sense when looking at sources, and if you have 
any doubts, talk with your classmates, colleagues, or disserta- 
tion advisor about your sources and any misgivings you might 
have. It’s better to be overly critical of your sources than not 
critical enough. Having distinguished the qualities of scholarly 
sources from those of non-scholarly sources, the next important 
distinction for conducting research is the differences between 
primary and secondary sources. 
What Is a Primary Source? 
A primary source is any kind of firsthand documentation 
of an event or action. Eye-witness accounts of events, inter- 
views, autobiographies, letters, and data collected through 
scientific procedures are all examples of primary sources. If 
you are writing a historical dissertation, a primary source 
could be a paper document created by someone in the past (e.g., 
old letters, diaries, journals, or logbooks). If you are writing a 
literature dissertation, your primary sources might be poems, 
novels, or plays. For a dissertation in the social sciences, your 
primary sources could include responses that people provide 
to surveys and questionnaires or interview transcriptions. For 
a dissertation in the hard sciences, your primary sources may 
be data from experiments or studies. Other kinds of primary 
sources might include newspaper or magazine articles, maps 
and artifacts, sound recordings or films, government doc- 
uments, or interviews. What the different kinds of primary 
sources have in common is that they are raw data that you can 
directly analyze and interpret. Even if others have analyzed the 
same material before, if you are looking at it directly and not 
106 
PhDONE 
through another scholar’s summary or interpretation, then it is 
a primary source. 
How Do | Find Primary Sources? 
You can find some kinds of primary sources in online data- 
bases. If your institution’s library subscribes to resources like 
ProQuest, you can search that database for newspaper and 
magazine articles. If you don’t have access to subscription- 
based databases, Google News provides free access to back 
issues of many periodicals. You can find hard copies of pri- 
mary sources in libraries. Most libraries provide access to hard 
copies of newspapers and periodicals. Some have recordings of 
oral history interviews or archival collections that include gov- 
ernment documents, letters, diaries, etc. Many libraries post 
listings or catalogs of their archival collections online. You can, 
for instance, search the Library of Congress’ archival collection 
using its online catalog; or you can search the Online Archive of 
California website to look for primary sources at different insti- 
tutions across California. Some of these sources will be open 
to the public, while others may require you to request permis- 
sion. Typically, if you are a student doing doctoral research at 
an institution, you should not have difficulty gaining access to 
these materials. 
That said, Allen had several colleagues studying history and 
doing archival research in Egypt and India, who often regaled 
other members of their cohort with tales of bribery and other 
measures taken just to gain access to the ancient texts. In one 
Egyptian archive, Nigel wasn’t allowed to make photocopies 
or photograph the texts. It also cost $50.00/day to enter the 
archive. He had only ten days to visit the archive, and he knew 
he wouldn’t have enough time to study and translate everything 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGINYOUR DISSERTATION 
107 
he would need for that chapter of his dissertation, so he actu- 
ally bought a wristwatch with a secret camera built into it—a la 
James Bond—to take illegal snapshots of the materials so that 
he could study them later. While we would never suggest that 
anyone should disobey the rules of a library or archive, some- 
times researchers have to go to great lengths to get access to 
primary sources! 
Your institution’s library website may have resources for 
helping you find primary sources. You can also find primary 
sources in books: look for collections of interviews or anthol- 
ogies of historical primary sources. Talk to librarians about 
what primary sources are available to you! Librarians can be a 
vital source of help as you conduct research. In social sciences 
and hard sciences, you may end up creating your own primary 
sources; when you conduct interviews, oral histories, experi-_ 
ments, and studies, you are developing the primary sources that 
you will use in your dissertation. 
How Can Primary Sources Help My Dissertation? 
In your dissertation, one of your jobs is to analyze pri- 
mary sources. To put this another way: your dissertation will 
tell readers what your primary sources mean and why they are 
important. If you find primary sources that few (or no) other 
scholars have analyzed, you'll be able to make a valuable contri- 
bution to your discipline. Kara, who was working on her PhD 
in English at Duke, received funding to do archival research 
for her literature dissertation in Scotland. While she was there, 
she came across a novel from 1759 that she thought seemed 
important, raising important issues of how Scottish nationhood 
was viewed by and for women, but found that no scholarly work | 
had yet been written on it. She added a chapter on the book to 
108 
PhDONE 
her dissertation, and will be coming out with the first critically- 
edited version of it with a well-known academic publisher later 
this year, a wonderful publication item to add to her CV! Even if 
what you find isn’t entirely new, if you can take primary sources 
that other scholars have used but interpret them in a way that 
is new and original, your dissertation can be innovative and 
exciting to other scholars in your field. Using primary sources 
can thus help you make your mark as a scholar. 
What Are Secondary Sources? 
Primary sources are, essentially, raw data and information, 
and the dissertation writer’s job is to process that information. 
Secondary sources are sources in which someone has analyzed 
primary sources or data. Secondary sources include work by 
other scholars like journal articles, books, and dissertations. 
They also include nonfiction books and biographies that aren’t 
intended for academic readers, as well as other types of essays 
or commentaries that describe and analyze primary sources. 
Secondary sources are the place most people start when con- 
ducting background research on their topic. But, as mentioned 
previously, you must ensure that any secondary sources you 
include in your dissertation are scholarly. 
Finding Books 
Once you have a dissertation topic, try using a keyword or 
subject search in your library catalog to find books related to 
your topic. Most (if not all) books housed in university libraries 
qualify as scholarly sources. If you have any doubts, however, 
check with a librarian or with your advisor before relying too 
heavily on a questionable source. Once you’ve used the cat- 
alog to locate books that might be useful to you, use their 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
109 
call numbers to locate them on the shelves. Be sure to look at 
books shelved near the one that you went looking for. Since 
books are organized according to topic, it’s likely that you'll 
find other useful secondary sources related to your topic that 
way. Some library online databases have a “browse” function 
frequently named “see nearby call numbers.” When physically 
browsing the library shelves isn’t an option, try browsing virtu- 
ally whenever possible. 
Finding Articles 
Databases 
like Google Scholar and JSTOR are great 
resources for finding articles. Once you have a dissertation 
topic, use these sites to search for keywords or subjects related 
to your topic. A keyword or subject search on these sites will 
bring up scholarly articles that reference your search terms. You 
may have to dig through the search results to find the sources 
: 
most closely related to your dissertation topic. Other places to 
search for sources are in the reference lists of recent disserta- 
tions and articles on topics similar to yours. Using the inverse 
strategy can also be fruitful. When you find a particularly rel- 
evant article, look at who has subsequently cited it (look for a 
“cited by” or similar link). 
When it comes to articles, it’s important to consider the 
publication date. While foundational articles can be used where 
necessary, it’s often optimal or even required by many universi- 
ties to use a certain percentage of articles published within the 
past five years. The idea behind this is that articles older than 
five years will just not be conversant with the most recent devel- 
opments in your field. Knowing exactly what the parameters 
are can help you determine the appropriate filters to use in your 
_ 
search. Library databases have a function that will allow you to 
110 
PhDONE 
filter for only peer-reviewed articles published within a certain 
time period. Be sure to account for your proposed graduation 
date when setting your parameters. This can save you a lot of 
pain later in the process, as updating your sources later in the 
process can be a daunting task. 
Literature Review: It’s Not an Annotated Bibliography 
During graduate school, and especially while you’re working 
on your dissertation, you’ll probably hear the terms “annotated 
bibliography” and “literature review” tossed around a lot. You 
might know that Chapter 2 of the dissertation is traditionally 
the Review of the Literature, but it’s not necessarily a straight 
literature review, either; it’s a bit more developed, with an intro- 
duction, information on search descriptors, and a brief outline 
of your conceptual/theoretical framework. 
So, where does an annotated bibliography fit in, if at all, and 
how does it differ? While both an annotated bibliography and a 
literature review are comprehensive collections of sources and 
research, the two are vastly different. 
Elements of an annotated bibliography: 
e 
An ordered list (usually alphabetical) of sources for 
additional reading, often explaining each source’s 
relevance to the topic, as well as a brief summary 
e 
Each source is listed separately from the other, for 
easy identification and location 
¢ 
Each source stands alone and is not integrated with 
other sources 
e 
Typically points the reader to sources for their own 
further reading/research 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGIN YOUR DISSERTATION 
111 
Elements of a literature review: 
e 
Overview of a specific topic with summaries and 
explanations of the most pertinent and important 
sources and findings on the subject 
e 
Synthesized, in-depth explanations of the research, 
integrated into developed paragraphs 
¢ 
More exploratory than an annotated bibliography, 
with the aim of presenting a cohesive picture of the 
existing research 
e 
Sources are discussed together, often compared and 
contrasted, and discussed in terms of the larger field 
e 
Helps the reader understand the research in a spe- 
cific way 
A literature review is more developed than an annotated 
bibliography and has a thesis at its core. The literature review 
chapter in a dissertation should always refer back to your 
larger project as its focus, not the literature being reviewed. It 
should highlight why the reader should care about your larger 
argument and research, and why your thesis statement is so 
important. By situating your research within a body of liter- 
ature and identifying the various studies that your research 
builds upon, confirms, contradicts, or emulates, you give your 
project credibility and otherwise justify to your reader that this 
project is well thought out and trustworthy. 
An annotated bibliography is merely an expanded list 
and can be a tool for researching and writing a larger paper. 
Some schools require annotated bibliographies to be added to 
larger papers, because they do provide assessments of available 
research, but are never part of the actual body of the papers. 
112 
PhDONE 
They are typically an appendix because again, they are a tool to 
propel you forward to the larger literature review—a building 
block, if you will. A good annotated bibliography can be helpful 
for the later development and structure of a literature review. 
Think of it this way: the annotated bibliography is the frame- 
work upon which to build the house of the literature review. 
By itself, it’s just bare beams and studs and you can’t tell what 
it’s largely about; it needs connective structures, embellishment, 
and a good, sturdy foundation. 
This is a very important distinction, as many students fall 
into the trap of conflating the literature review with an anno- 
tated bibliography. They will write their literature reviews with 
each paragraph beginning with the name of an author and 
simply describe that individual’s study. They seek our guidance 
because their advisor has said their literature review is lacking 
synthesis, structure, or coherence. 
When writing your literature review, it is of paramount 
importance that it doesn’t merely summarize the work you 
have read. Rather, the literature review situates your research 
project within various bodies of scholarly literature. Each and 
every paragraph of your literature review is about your research 
project. The organization of your literature review should be 
based on themes, as different aspects of the scholarly conver- 
sation are addressed at once. For example, you might have five 
or six different sources that refer to the efficacy of your chosen 
methodology. There is no need to separate those out into five 
or six different paragraphs and address each one individually. 
Instead, create a paragraph that relates your chosen method- 
ology to those sources and weave between them as you create 
an argument that justifies why your methodology is appropriate 
and effective. Thematic organization is one of the most logical 
OFF THE STARTING BLOCKS: HOWTO BEGIN YOURDISSERTATION 
113 
ways to construct a literature review chapter. When thinking 
through your chapter outline, a good place to begin is with the 
different themes that emerged through your research. Then 
put them together in an order that makes sense and expand on 
which sources you will discuss as you tackle each theme. This 
strategy will result in an engaging chapter that advocates for 
the significance of your research as it compares to previously 
conducted studies. 
Having reviewed the extant literature, selected scholarly 
sources and synthesized their significance, you’re prepared to 
make your intervention in the field. Now that you know what 
hasn’t yet been done, it’s time to do it! The next chapter includes 
a discussion of the methodology, results, and discussion chap- 
ters you will use to plan, enact, and report on the results of your 
novel work. 
CHAPTER 6 
Data: How to Get It, How to 
Analyze It, How to Present It 
Research Questions 
You have a general topic for your dissertation, and you’ve con- 
ducted background research to figure out how this topic fits 
within the larger body of literature. Now, you have to narrow 
down your research question. Research questions for a disser- 
tation usually consist of a main research question or questions 
and several sub-questions, which help redirect you in answer- 
ing the main question(s). 
How can you determine what your research questions should 
be? A good place to start is thinking about the questions that 
keep coming to mind as you read about and research your topic. 
Jot those questions down. Often, identifying a gap in the liter- 
ature can lead you to research questions that are unanswered 
by the existing literature and therefore worthy of a dissertation. 
After you have several questions written down, take a critical 
116 
PhDONE 
look at them. Can they be refined into your research questions? 
Aspects of research questions to consider include: 
e 
Are they clear? Research questions should be as 
clear as possible and give you explicit direction. If 
your questions are unclear, your paper will reflect 
that, and you will likely waste a lot of time with 
inefficient research on things you don’t need for 
your dissertation. 
e 
Are they specific? You want questions pointed 
enough to give you direction and enable you to write 
a dissertation rather than a multivolume tome, but 
you don’t want an overly narrow focus. You want 
questions that are specific yet complex enough to 
require research. 
In this chapter, we refer to a fictitious study about factors 
that affect dissertation writers’ perceptions of their work-life 
balance. To start, here is an example of an ineffective research 
question (RQ), rewritten to be more effective: 
Ineffective RQ: What factors affect dissertation writers’ 
work-life balance? 
Effective RQ: What, if any, differences in perceived levels of 
work-life balance exist between dissertation writers who set a 
specific work schedule and those who do not? 
When formulating your research questions, think of open- 
ended questions (i.e., “how” or “why” questions). Phrase the 
questions in neutral terms to avoid possible skewing of research 
or data. You don’t want your research questions to be leading. 
Choose something that fascinates you: a question that you 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOW TO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
117 
actively want to answer! This is important because you'll be 
studying this for several years, and if you don’t like what you’re 
studying, it will be that much harder to motivate yourself to 
work and make the process a lot less enjoyable. 
When you have potential research questions, ask yourself 
about ethical issues that might arise: What are possible risks/ 
benefits to the researcher or subjects? Will this hurt anyone? 
Who will it benefit? Can my data be misused to hurt people? 
Think about whether your research questions are feasible. Is it 
possible, on a practical level, to do the necessary research for 
your questions? Would it require an enormous sample size that 
you just can’t get? Are you able to collect the data? 
Judith, an EdD candidate at Trident University, planned 
to ask high school administrators and students to respond 
to a lengthy questionnaire and then interview each of the 
administrators and students for an hour. Judith was hoping to 
interview 100 students and at least a dozen administrators. She 
was planning to survey and interview far more participants 
than she needed to reach data saturation. Furthermore, she 
was giving herself far too much work to review and synthesize. 
She would need a team of researchers to make such a study 
feasible, yet all she had was herself. When considering all the 
work to organize each interview, run the interview, manage 
the data, dictate the interview, code the data, and then ana- 
lyze and write about them, each person she interviewed would 
likely represent ten hours of work. She was giving herself hun- 
dreds if not thousands of hours of work when all she needed 
to 
do was interview five or six administrators (still a solid couple 
of weeks of working full-time to incorporate the data into 
her study properly). She didn’t need to have anyone respond 
118 
PhDONE 
to questionnaires, and she didn’t need to interview students. 
What she did need was another set of eyes on her research plan 
to save her from going overboard. 
Alignment 
A key to a strong, cohesive dissertation is alignment. There 
are two main ways in which a dissertation must align. The first 
is that the research questions must align with the subject matter 
and the theoretical framework. If the research question is unre- 
lated to the topic, the committee will reject it. To return to 
the fictional study example, here is an example of a research 
question that would not be aligned with that topic: Do disser- 
tation writers who set a clearly defined schedule finish faster? 
This question is not aligned with the topic, because it has to 
do with the pace of completion and is irrelevant to the disser- 
tation’s focus on work-life balance. Here is an example of a 
question that is aligned with that topic: Does setting a rigid 
40-hour workweek contribute to dissertation writers’ perceived 
work-life balance? 
The second form of alignment has to do with the relation- 
ship between your research questions and your methodology. 
They have to line up with each other. If they do not, not only 
will-your committee notice and request revisions in this area, 
but it will also create a chaos of sorts within your paper, espe- 
cially in terms of writing and organization. As a result, you 
have to think about methodology when choosing your research 
questions. Part of creating effective research questions is 
knowing they can be answered by the methodology you are 
also selecting. 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
119 
For example, take the following quantitative research 
question: What percentage of dissertation writers have a set 
weekly schedule? If you chose to interview five writers about 
their schedules, your methodology would not be aligned with 
your research question. If you chose to distribute a survey to 
2,000 dissertation writers about their scheduling preferences, 
your methodology would be more aligned with your research 
question. If your research question were qualitative (How 
do dissertation writers perceive the importance of a weekly 
schedule?), interviewing five graduate students would be better 
aligned with your research question. 
What Is the Difference Between Qualitative 
and Quantitative Methodology? 
Two main families of methodologies exist: qualitative and 
quantitative. Qualitative studies seek to understand subjective 
interrelationships while quantitative studies seek to establish 
and examine definitive numerical relationships. Most research 
in the humanities is qualitative, though quantitative studies 
are possible. Conversely, scientific research is generally quan- 
titative, but qualitative studies may be possible. Researchers in 
the social sciences may choose between the two approaches or 
combine them, depending on the goals of their studies. The fol- 
lowing table lays out some distinctions between the two types 
of inquiry: 
120 
PhDONE 
Qualitative 
Quantitative 
Investigates and expresses concepts 
Investigates and expresses concepts 
via words 
via numbers 
Asks, “Why? How? What 
Asks, “How much? How 
is the context? What are 
many? What is the strength of 
the implications?” 
the correlation?” 
Develops a theory 
Tests a theory 
Establishes legitimacy by 
Establishes legitimacy by striving 
acknowledging its subjectivity and 
_for objectivity and freedom from 
accounting for its own bias 
bias 
Interprets 
Measures 
Values processes over outcome 
Values outcome over processes 
Requires rich sources 
Requires a statistically significant 
sample size 
Assumes dynamic, organic 
Assumes a static, mechanistic, 
reality about which humans 
knowable reality 
create meaning 
Focuses on narratives, symbols, 
Focuses on facts, statistics, 
human interactions, and systems of correlation or causation, and 
human meaning 
numerical relationships 
Reasons dialectically and 
Reasons logistically and 
inductively 
deductively 
Explores 
Seeks definitive conclusions 
Establishes credibility via member _ Establishes validity via replicable 
check, interview corroboration, 
results; seeks results that can be 
peer debriefing, prolonged 
generalized 
engagement, negative case analysis, 
auditability, confirmability, 
bracketing, and/or balance; 
generalizations are suspect 
Claims must be arguable (that is, | Claims must be falsifiable (that is, 
an equally intelligent, informed 
evidence that would disprove them 
researcher could take an 
must be imaginable) 
opposing viewpoint) 
Seeks culturally specific truths 
Seeks universal truths 
Methods include interviews and 
Methods include empirical 
case studies 
observation and measurement 
DATA: HOW T0 GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTOPRESENTIT 
121 
Qualitative methods can be used to develop quantitative 
research questions or to interpret the results of quantitative 
studies. Moving back and forth between quantitative and 
qualitative ways of understanding your dissertation topic 
during the planning phase may allow you to explain it in richer 
ways, using words and numbers; it may allow you to see an 
old problem from a fresh perspective, or-it may allow con- 
tradictions or disconnections to emerge, leading to new lines 
of inquiry. 
Changing Methodologies 
Sometimes students change from a qualitative to a quanti- 
tative methodology depending on feasibility. You might set out 
to conduct interviews and discover that the people you wish 
to interview aren’t as available as you originally thought, and 
it would be much more feasible to get those people to respond 
to a survey instead. To revisit Judith (the doctoral candi- 
date whose goal for interviewing participants was far out of 
scope), she did away with her survey component and her stu- 
dent interview component after discovering that interviewing 
a student population required many more steps than an adult 
population. Ultimately, she realized that she would glean 
more than enough data from the administrator interviews. As 
you develop your methodologies, you might discover that the 
survey questions you are creating are too limiting in scope and © 
you want to conduct interviews to have a more open-ended 
_ approach. If you do change your research methods, you will 
need to go back and reframe your research question to fit the 
new methodology. 
122 
PhDONE 
Here are three sample research questions that interrogate 
the same topic—the work-life balance of a doctoral candidate— 
each using a different methodology: 
Qualitative research question: How does a graduate stu- 
dent’s writing schedule 
affect their perceived 
level of 
work-life balance? 
Quantitative 
research question: How does 
a graduate 
student’s writing schedule affect writers’ average time to 
dissertation completion? 
Mixed methods research question: How does a disserta- 
tion writer’s writing schedule affect their perceived level 
of work-life balance, and how does writing schedule affect 
writers’ average time to dissertation completion? 
While these questions are appropriately aligned with a 
research topic addressing dissertation writers’ schedules and 
their effects on work-life balance and/or completion time, the 
first is effective for a qualitative researcher seeking to obtain 
information about what kind of subjective experiences and 
attitudes the participants have about an aspect of the topic. 
The second research question would be best used by a quan- 
titative researcher interested 
in demonstrating variability 
of dissertation completion time. The last research question, 
mixed methods, gives us a quantity (quantitative question) to 
consider, how much time the graduate students will take to 
finish their degree, and a question about the nature of some 
type of phenomena (qualitative question): How does this 
writing schedule affect your work-life balance? Before moving 
on, make sure that your research question fits with the type of 
f 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
123 
information you aim to discover and how you plan to go about 
obtaining it. 
Lastly, it’s important to keep in mind that doctoral proj- 
ects often have multiple research questions or sub-questions. 
Each question might be answerable with the same type of data 
analysis method, or in the case of mixed methods studies, the 
research questions might require different methods of collecting 
and analyzing data. 
Here are examples of research questions with fully fleshed 
out sub-questions: 
Qualitative 
RQ: How does a graduate student’s writing schedule affect 
their perceived level of work-life balance? 
Sub-question: How do dissertation writers who follow a set 
weekly writing schedule describe their work-life balance? 
Sub-question: How do dissertation writers, who follow a 
flexible writing schedule and do not use set hours, describe 
their work-life balance? 
Quantitative 
RQ: How does a writing schedule affect writers’ average 
time to dissertation completion? 
Sub-question: What is the average length of time to comple- 
tion among dissertation writers who follow a set weekly 
writing schedule? 
124 
PhDONE 
Sub-question: What is the average length of time to comple- 
tion among dissertation writers who do not follow a set 
weekly writing schedule? 
Mixed Methods 
RQ: How does a dissertation writer’s writing schedule affect 
their perceived level of work-life balance and which type of 
schedule is most commonly adopted? 
Sub-question: What percentage of dissertation writers adopt 
a set writing schedule compared to a flexible writing style? 
Sub-question: How do dissertation writers who follow a set 
weekly writing schedule describe their work-life balance? 
Sub-question: How do dissertation writers who follow a 
flexible writing schedule and do not use set hours describe 
their work-life balance? 
Hypotheses 
Now that you have written your research questions, it’s 
time to develop a hypothesis for each of them. There are dif- 
ferent types of hypotheses. A null hypothesis is the hypothesis 
that there will be no statistically significant difference between 
groups being analyzed. The alternative hypotheses means that 
the differences will be statistically significant. Referring back 
to our quantitative study on doctoral students’ work-life bal- 
ance, the following might be some hypotheses we would use to 
describe the project. After each hypothesis, we have named the 
statistical test we’d use to answer that research question and 
prove (or disprove) each of the hypotheses. In a later section, we 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOW TO ANALYZE IT, HOW TO PRESENT IT 
125 
will discuss common statistical tests and how you might deter- 
mine which one is appropriate for your project. 
RQ1: How Does a Flexible Writing Schedule Relate to Perceived 
Work-Life Balance? 
Null hypothesis: There are no significant differences 
in 
reported 
work-life 
balance 
levels 
between 
dissertation 
writers who adopt a flexible schedule and those who adopt 
set schedules. 
Alternate hypothesis: There are significant differences in 
reported work-life 
balance 
levels between 
dissertation 
writers who adopt a flexible schedule and those who adopt 
set schedules. 
Analysis: You might run an independent samples t-test to 
assess for differences in perceived work-life balance levels 
between dissertation writers who adopt a flexible schedule 
versus those who adopt set schedules. 
RQ2: Do Certain Ranges of Hours Spent Writing per Week Lead to 
Different Levels of Perceived Work-Life Balance? 
Null hypothesis: 
There 
are 
no 
significant 
differences 
between dissertation writers in work-life balance correlated 
with hours spent writing per week. 
Alternate hypothesis: There are significant differences 
in 
perceived work-life balance between dissertation writers 
— 
according to how much time is spent writing per week. 
Analysis: You will run a one-way Analysis of Variance 
(ANOVA) to test for differences in reported work-life 
126 
PhDONE 
balance between dissertation writers who report different 
ranges of time spent writing per week. This will be followed 
up with post hoc tests to assess what the differences between 
each pair are and if they are significant. 
Analysis Planning 
Once you have identified a gap in the literature worth investi- 
gating, pinpointed your research questions, and have chosen the 
research design you will use to answer these questions (qualita- 
tive approach, quantitative approach, or mixed methods design), 
it’s time to move into the analysis planning stage. Your analysis 
plan will be an integral part of your methodology chapter. 
What Is Analysis Planning? 
During this stage, you will start to think about how you 
are going to measure the concepts identified in your research 
questions and decide which analyses are appropriate to eval- 
uate them. More specifically, the right data analysis method 
will allow you to assess the specific proposed relationships 
between these concepts. At this stage, you will start to consider 
which assumptions about your data need to be met to test these 
hypothesized relationships and which tests will be necessary to 
ensure they have been met. 
Typically, this process begins by closely examining your 
research questions and the associated hypothesized relation- 
ships. You will then look closely at each concept in your research 
questions and hypotheses and decide how to measure each of 
these concepts. For example, if you are interested in exploring 
well-being, you will need to determine how best to measure 
well-being (this might be a combination of several question- 
naires). If you are looking to explore gender, you will need to 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
127 
decide—before you begin data collection—how you are going 
to measure that concept. 
Once you have collected your data, you will need to assign 
variables (and groups of variables) to each concept you use in 
your hypotheses/research questions, ensuring you have all the 
data you need to answer your research questions. It is better 
to have a clear idea of how you will match these up before you 
begin collecting data to avoid a heartbreaking scenario where 
you realize you have not asked the correct questions to ade- 
quately answer your hypotheses/research questions. 
Finally, during the analysis planning stage, you will need 
to determine exactly which statistical tests are necessary/ideal 
to test your hypotheses. In the next section, you'll find a list of 
common tests and how they are used. This can be a starting 
point for figuring out how to analyze your data; however, if you 
- 
are lost, be sure to ask an expert for-help! 
Why Is It Important? 
The analysis plan is typically included in the methods 
chapter of your dissertation and is essential to ensuring that you 
can test your research questions/hypotheses with confidence. 
It is crucial that you explain clearly and confidently how you 
chose the variables to match the concepts you identified in your 
research questions, why you chose the statistical tests you used, 
and whether your data matched the required assumptions for 
each statistical test before you defend your dissertation project. 
_ 
Common Quantitative Analysis Tests Used in Social Science Research 
Here’s a list of many of the most common tests we see at 
Dissertation Editor. This is by no means an exhaustive list and 
_ 
certainly there are plenty of students working in other areas. 
128 
PhDONE 
However, the following list should provide a basis for intro- 
ducing the most common analyses used in the social sciences. 
Correlation Analyses 
Correlation analyses are used to measure the strength and 
direction of the association between two or more variables. For 
example, if you are interested in exploring whether time spent 
outdoors is significantly associated with severity of depression 
and you wish to determine the strength of the relationship, as 
well as the direction of the relationship (positively or negatively 
associated), this is the statistical test for you. However, this test 
does not tell you which variable causes the other. 
T-tests 
A t-test is used to determine whether there is a significant 
difference in mean scores (of some measurement/instrument) 
between two groups. There are two types: paired samples t-test 
used to measure changes in the same group across time and 
independent samples t-test used to measure changes in different 
groups. For example, if you want to explore whether mean scores 
on a cognitive task significantly change after a mindfulness 
intervention, you might choose to run a paired samples t-test 
to compare mean scores before the intervention to mean scores 
after the intervention. If you want to explore whether mean 
scores on a cognitive task significantly differ between those who 
practice meditation versus those who do not, you might choose 
to run an independent samples t-test to test group differences. 
Chi-square Tests 
When you are interested in whether there is a significant 
relationship between two groups and your variables of interest 
are categorical in nature, the chi-square test is appropriate. For 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
129 
example, a researcher who wants to explore whether there is 
a significant relationship in their sample population—such as, 
whether participants’ choice to work in a specific industry has 
any correlation with their marital status—a chi-square test 
analysis would be appropriate. 
ANOVA 
Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) tests are used to deter- 
mine whether there are significant differences in mean scores 
(of some measurement/instrument) between three or more 
groups. For example, if you wish to determine whether there 
are significant differences in time spent outdoors between 
urban, rural, and suburban populations, you might choose an 
ANOVA test. 
Linear Regression Analysis 
Linear regression analysis is used to determine the extent to 
which a continuous independent variable can predict the value 
of a dependent variable. For example, a researcher who wanted 
to determine if the amount of time one spends outdoors can 
predict scores on a depression measure would choose to use a 
linear regression analysis. 
Factor Analysis 
Factor analysis is used to determine exactly which inter- 
related factors represent a broader, more complex concept, 
as well as to determine the extent to which items contribute 
to each factor. For example, if a researcher wants to develop 
a new measure to explore participants’ beliefs about moth- 
erhood, that researcher might conduct a factor analysis to 
determine which interrelated sub-factors are representative of 
this broader concept. 
130 
PhDONE 
Statistical Significance 
Statistical significance is not a measure of a research proj- 
ect’s worth or value. It’s a specific term used to describe the 
results of a study. It indicates the likelihood that the effect 
found occurred by chance. For example, Lupe, a student in 
south Texas, wanted to explore a common belief that Latinas 
possess a higher level of body acceptance than their White 
counterparts; they are not so driven by the “thin ideal” and are 
comfortable in rounder, lusher figures. Thus, they are not as 
prone to anorexia, bulimia, and unhealthy calorie restriction. 
Lupe, a Latina herself, decided to demonstrate this phenomenon 
empirically by surveying female students at her south Texas uni- 
versity, which has almost equal numbers of Latinx and White 
students. She chose to use a p-value, or significance value, of 
0.05. That means that there would be a 5S percent chance that 
the results of her study could occur if the null hypothesis was 
true. Her literature review and previous research supported the 
popular conception that Latinas accept fuller body types. She 
used a well-established body image measure, the Body Appre- 
ciation Scale (BAS-2), and gathered 500 responses from women 
ranging from freshmen to seniors in college. 
After doing an independent samples t-test to compare White 
and Latina responses, Lupe called her advisor to say that her 
dissertation project was a failure: “I didn’t find anything!” she 
mourned. The t-test turned out nonsignificant, suggesting that 
there was no difference between the groups. Dr. Lopez, her 
advisor, reassured her that a finding of “no significance” is not 
at all a failure. Finding no difference when you really expect 
one is meaningful in itself. Lupe’s somewhat surprising results 
were cause for logical speculation that could be developed in 
her discussion chapter. For example, by the time a Latina is a 
DATA: HOW T0 GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
131 
student at a large public university, she may be just as brain- 
washed into the “thin ideal” as any other woman. Or women 
who go to college may be different in this regard from women 
who stay near home after high school. Or the college students 
could consist of mostly second- and third-generation citizens, 
who are likely to embrace mainstream values rather than the 
values of their predecessors. Lupe thought about what research 
projects could explore the veracity of these speculations and 
proposed such research in the future directions section of her 
discussion chapter. 
Lupe successfully defended her dissertation and, with Dr. 
Lopez’s help, revised it as an article for publication. They suf- 
fered a few rejections from diversity-focused publications, 
which they suspected was due to these publications’ commit- 
ment to studies showing differences rather than similarities. At 
a well-regarded general psychological services journal, however, 
they received an acceptance with very few revisions. The article 
was published, and a highlight of Lupe’s vita is her achievement 
of an important publication even before she graduated. “Just 
because a statistic is nonsignificant doesn’t mean it’s not signif- 
icant!” she now asserts. 
Qualitative Analysis Planning 
While quantitative analysis tends to use specific tests, qual- 
itative analysis starts with coding and reviewing the available 
data. When you’re planning your qualitative study, you want _ 
to make sure your interview questions are focused on what 
concepts you want to measure in your population of interest. 
Once your data is collected, the coding process takes a few iter- 
ations before clear themes emerge. This coding process can be 
understood as tagging your text data, which can then be used 
132 
PhDONE 
to generate variables. You may want to decide early on if you’re 
going to create this coding scheme by consulting the data or by 
basing it on a theoretical framework in your discipline. 
Once your coding scheme is developed, the analysis can range 
from being descriptive to establishing conceptual relationships. 
This can include aspects like extracting relevant quotes or cre- 
ating a code cross-tabulation matrix to explore associations. It will 
really depend on the research questions you are trying to answer. 
Writing Your Methodology Chapter 
The methodology section of your dissertation is where you 
describe what you did and how you did it. Don’t let the term 
“methodology” scare you—it’s really just a fancy way of saying 
method. This section is where you outline the plan that you fol- 
lowed and the steps that you took in completing your research. 
During the proposal phase of a dissertation, this chapter is typ- 
ically written in the future tense. Once the proposal has been 
accepted, the student will convert it to past tense and make any 
adjustments that might have resulted in altering the method- 
ology during the data collection phase. This section is important 
to your dissertation because it shows your reader how you went 
about finding your results. In outlining your methodology, you'll 
demonstrate that you’ve used legitimate scholarly methods. It’s 
one of the places in your dissertation where you show what 
you learned to do in graduate school: to conduct research like 
a scholar! If you used new or innovative methods in completing 
your dissertation research, this is where you tell your reader 
about them. It’s your chance to demonstrate how you’ve con- 
tributed to the way that scholars in your field conduct research. 
In some fields or departments, you may be expected to devote 
an entire chapter to describing and justifying your methodology. 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
133 
In other fields, there may be less of an emphasis on methodology. 
You may briefly describe your methods in a few pages of your 
introduction or first chapter. Your dissertation advisor can offer 
guidance on how extensive your methodology section needs to be. 
For a dissertation in the social sciences involving human 
subject research, you should describe the context or setting of 
your study (i.e., when and where you conducted your research), 
who participated in the study, what instruments or methods 
you used to collect data, and what procedures you used to 
complete your study and analyze your data. For other kinds of 
dissertations, your methodology section might be different. In 
a literature dissertation, for instance, your methodology section 
might outline which texts you are analyzing and explain what 
theoretical perspective informs your analysis. It’s best to consult 
with your dissertation advisor about what is appropriate or nec- 
- 
essary for your dissertation. 
Institutional Review Board (IRB) 
You’ve finished your proposal, and now it’s time to collect 
data and conduct your research. But wait: first, you have to get 
IRB approval. Many students are often surprised by this or are 
unclear as to what the IRB is and why it creates this hurdle that 
must be crossed prior to conducting research. 
What Is It? 
iS 
The IRB is an administrative group that protects the rights 
and well-being of human research subjects who participate in 
research projects, whether in the context of schools, hospitals, 
or other institutions. The IRB makes sure that human subjects 
in research studies have their welfare and rights protected and 
that their identities remain private. Each school may be slightly 
134 
PhDONE 
different, but generally there is a process for obtaining IRB 
approval for your specific study that will ensure your research 
meets all regulations, including those of your educational insti- 
tution and federal regulations. 
The IRB is generally composed of at least five individuals, 
all from different backgrounds. This is to ensure a diverse 
amount of experience and input regarding the implications of 
your proposed study. There is also at least one IRB member 
who is not affiliated with the institution and one member who 
is not a scientist. Consultants also work with the IRB. In addi- 
tion to approving or rejecting proposals, the IRB may conduct 
periodic checks to ensure researchers are following the protocol 
laid out in their IRB application. 
Why Is It Important? 
Many of you might have heard about some 
of the 
unethical research done in the past (Stanford Prison Experi- 
ment, anyone?). This board was created to protect the rights 
and welfare of human research participants to ensure they are 
treated ethically. 
Tips for Making Sure You Pass 
When writing your proposal for your IRB application, you 
should be aware of several elements the IRB is looking for. 
Addressing each of the points below with care and attention to 
detail will improve your chances of obtaining approval. 
1. As the researcher, it is your responsibility to 
protect the privacy of your participants’ data. 
When writing your proposal, be clear about 
how you plan to maintain confidentiality of 
DATA: HOW T0 GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
135 
participants’ personal information. You will 
want to explain how you are going to make 
sure participants’ names (and/or other personal 
information) are kept separate from their data. 
You will need to explain how you will keep all of 
the data and other personal information about the 
participants stored in a safe/locked location and 
explain how (and when) you will properly dispose 
of their data, once the study has been completed. 
Hint: you'll usually need to keep data for three 
years and then dispose of it. 
2. It is your responsibility to ensure your participants 
are participating in the research study of their 
own free will and that they know exactly what to 
expect. This includes telling participants—using 
very plain and straightforward Janguage— 
about whether there are any risks involved in 
participating in the study, how they can withdraw 
from the study at any time with no negative 
consequences, and explaining to them how their 
data will be used and protected. And all of these 
explanations must be provided to participants 
before they take part in the study. These points are 
typically written in a detailed informed consent 
form, which each participant must read and sign 
before taking part in the study. Be sure 
to save an 
| 
unsigned informed consent form, as you will want _ 
to include it as an appendix in your dissertation. 
3. It is up to you to minimize risk in your study. You 
should demonstrate that you have considered any 
risk/potential harm to which your participants 
136 
PhDONE 
may be subject while participating in your study 
and that you have reduced any risk/potential harm 
to the best of your ability. If your research requires 
an element of risk that may be potentially harmful 
to the participant, the risk/potential harm needs 
to be thoroughly and thoughtfully justified in 
your application. 
Writing Your Results 
Goal of a Results Chapter 
The main goal of a results chapter—typically Chapter 4 in 
a standard five-chapter dissertation—is to present the results 
of your data analyses in the most clear, concise, and thorough 
way possible. One way to achieve the most straightforward, 
concise report 
of your results is through tables, graphs, and fig- 
ures, which should be supplemented by a write-up explaining 
the most important aspects (rather than the whole table/figure/ 
graph). If you have conducted qualitative research, this chapter 
will include direct quotes from interviews with your partici- 
pants. Whether you have conducted qualitative or quantitative 
research, this is where you tell your reader what you discovered: 
not the significance or interpretation of what you discovered, 
just the facts. 
. 
What’s Included 
In your results chapter, present any quantitative infor- 
mation about your participants. These are called descriptive 
statistics, which let the reader know who your participants 
are, including information about their age, gender, education, 
race, etc. In addition to reporting on the socio-demographics 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
137 
of your participants, you should explore whether there are any 
differences between groups and account for any confounding 
variables related to participant demographics, attrition, or other 
potential factors that could be overlooked. 
Answer each of your research questions concisely in this 
chapter, preferably in the order you presented them in previous 
chapters (keep it consistent throughout!); Make it clear to the 
reader which analyses you used to test your hypotheses, report 
the tests of assumptions for each analysis you have run, and 
then present the results, including whether your hypotheses 
were rejected or accepted. If you aren’t sure whether you should 
include certain results, go back to your research questions, re- 
read them, and decide whether the results are relevant to your 
questions. If so, then include them. If not, then don’t. 
Another thing to think about is how best to present your 
- 
results, and whether it’s best to include figures, graphs, text, or 
tables. A variety of formats can keep the results section inter- 
esting and fresh for the reader. At the same time, you don’t want 
to overwhelm the reader visually and make the chapter appear 
choppy or sloppy. You only need to include tables, graphs, 
and figures if they make the results easier to understand. If 
you choose to use tables, graphs, and figures, use them spar- 
ingly and wisely, caption them well, and introduce them and 
the content in them to the reader before you present them. For 
more on this topic, see the section on “Putting Visual Aids in 
Your Dissertation.” 
What’s Not Included 
Do not discuss your chosen methodology in this chapter, 
nor how the results relate to the literature in your field or your 
theoretical framework. Both of these are covered in other 
138 
PhDONE 
chapters and are not pertinent to this one. There is no need to go 
into detail about the variables you have used in this chapter or 
the past literature on these variables. Keep this chapter focused 
on objectively reporting the results; this will result in tighter 
writing and a more credible, academic tone. 
Writing Your Discussion Section 
Goal of This Chapter 
The goal of the discussion chapter is to reflect, thoughtfully, 
on the results of your analyses and explain systematically to the 
reader how the results of your analyses relate to your research 
questions and to the literature in your field. The goal of the 
discussion chapter is for the researcher to explore and reflect 
on whether their findings are in line with previous research in 
the field and also to demonstrate how their findings are new 
and unique, emphasizing how the new findings contribute to 
the field. It is important to highlight the impact of your findings 
to the reader in this chapter. 
What’s Included 
The limitations and delimitations are discussed in this 
chapter. The limitations that you should present include factors 
that may have influenced the results that you were not able to 
control. The delimitations should also be presented, informing 
the reader about the decisions you made that may have restricted 
your study or findings. The difference between limitations and 
delimitations is often a stumbling block for students, but the 
key is whether they were outside your control (limitations) or 
within your control (delimitations). For example, unexpectedly 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
139 
being unable to conduct in-person interviews due to a pandemic 
is a limitation; the choice to select your participants to individ- 
uals who defended their dissertation between March 2020 and 
March 2022 to see how the COVID-19 pandemic affected their 
dissertation completion process is a delimitation. 
You'll also present your findings (again, preferably in the 
same order you presented your research questions and results 
for consistency) and discuss how they relate to the existing liter- 
ature in your field, with an emphasis on how your findings are 
unique and what they add to the field. Any potential impact of 
your findings should be explored and discussed, along with sug- 
gestions and directions for future research. 
What’s Not Included 
The discussion chapter, like the other chapters in your dis-’ 
sertation, serves a specific purpose. Therefore, in this chapter, 
you do not include information on what methods you chose and 
used, which analyses were conducted, or statistical test results. 
These are all addressed in other chapters. 
Writing Your Conclusion 
You’re almost done with your dissertation or thesis, but 
there’s still that pesky conclusion chapter. Frequently, the dis- 
cussion and conclusion are combined in one, final, fifth chapter; 
however, many programs separate them out into separate chap- 
ters. Whether it is a stand-alone chapter or the final section 
of 
chapter five, the conclusion of your dissertation is not simply a 
short and fast summary—it can be the most powerful, important _ 
part of your dissertation. It is the last thing your readers will . 
140 
PhHDONE 
absorb, and you want it to be strong to have the greatest impact 
on the reader. Writing a good conclusion chapter is more than 
mere regurgitation of what’s already been said, so read on to 
find out how to make your conclusion count. 
What Are the Goals of the Conclusion Chapter? 
Before you begin, it’s good to know what you’re aiming for. 
So, let’s look at the main goals of the conclusion chapter. 
e 
Provide an overview of your original research and 
contributions to the field from the paper and how 
they fit into the larger research on the topic 
e 
Summarize the major points from your previous 
chapters and key findings 
e 
Make recommendations based on your findings 
and any limitations you’ve discovered 
e 
Provide suggestions for future research on the topic 
What Should You NOT Do in Your Conclusion Chapter? 
There are also some things you should not do in your con- 
clusion chapter, such as: 
e 
Introduce new material or findings 
e 
Overwrite or go over every single finding you’ve 
already discussed 
e 
Ignore any of your research questions 
e Repeat anything you have already explained in 
your discussion chapter 
Make sure your conclusion chapter addresses everything 
you set out to explore before wrapping everything up. 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
141 
Things to Keep in Mind 
An important quality of the conclusion chapter is your 
ability, as a researcher, to reflect on your work both creatively 
and thoughtfully. Think of it this way: If someone were to read 
only the conclusion chapter of your dissertation, what should 
they know about your most salient points? What would you 
want them to take away from your work? You can be more 
specific and subjective here about what your dissertation con- 
tributes to the field and what you have deduced from your work. 
Adding Visual Aids to Your Dissertation 
Visual aids, like tables and figures, can provide the reader 
with necessary information quickly and clearly. However, if you 
have too many unnecessary tables or figures, they can interrupt 
~ 
the flow of the paper and become an annoying distraction to the 
reader. The key is to use them wisely and appropriately. 
What Is the Purpose of Tables and Figures in a Scholarly Paper? 
Tables and figures help the reader understand information in 
your paper and can help provide clarity with your data and results. 
To clarify the difference between tables and figures: Tables convey 
data in the form of numbers and text, typically aligned in rows 
and columns; and figures convey data using images. These can be 
photographs; flow charts; bar, line, or pie graphs; or just about 
any other kind of visual representation of information. Often, stu- 
dents are uncertain about whether they have inserted a table or a 
figure, as we frequently see them mislabeled. The simplest way to 
think about it is if it’s only got numbers and text, it’s probably a 
table. If it has anything else, it’s probably a figure. Before putting 
a table or figure into your paper, here are some things to consider: 
142 
PhDONE 
Is this 
necessary? The point of a visual aid is to com- 
municate information quickly and clearly, not to 
take up space or complicate things. Simple descrip- 
tive statistics can easily be put into the text and 
don’t need a table. Data in a table that requires two 
or fewer columns should just be placed into the text. 
Relation to text. Tables and figures complement and 
supplement the text, so the text should refer to the 
visual aid and mention what the reader should note. 
The table or figure should be placed near said text. 
It can be frustrating to read a document in which 
the author is continually referring to graphics that 
are far away from their reference in the text. When 
tables and figures are far away from the text that 
mentions them, the reader has to flip around from 
page to page trying to find the relevant visual aid and 
then flip back to find where they were in the article. 
Put simply, keep it together. Similarly, always refer 
to a table or figure by its number (i.e., “see Table 4,” 
rather than “see the table below”). Position on the 
page can change during manuscript formatting, so 
it’s always better to be specific. 
Cite appropriately. If you are borrowing a table, 
figure, or visual piece of data from another source, 
make sure you have all of the information from said 
source to cite it properly. If you use a table or figure 
from another source, it should be replicated exactly, 
then cited per the appropriate formatting style. 
Different fields and universities have different stip- 
ulations about what constitutes academic fair use. 
Confer with your advisor and/or graduate student 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
143 
handbook to determine whether you need to seek 
permission from the copyright holder to use a table 
or figure in your work. 
e 
Be 
consistent. 
Tables 
and 
figures 
should 
be 
numbered 
sequentially; 
probability 
values 
and 
abbreviations should be consistent, as should titles 
and formatting. Always use the same spacing. Col- 
umns and rows should be labeled similarly, and the 
data should be aligned the same way. 
¢ 
Do not repeat data in multiple tables or figures. 
Each visual aid should have unique information. 
e 
Recreate tables from SPSS or other statistical pro- 
grams. While it’s tempting to simply insert the 
ready-made table, these often contain way too much 
information that isn’t necessary for the reader. 
Decide what is pertinent and create a new table. 
e 
Choose unique figures. Similarly, for figures, it 
is important that the information in the figure 
be 
unique, 
not 
repeated, 
and 
easily 
under- 
standable. It might be tempting to insert every 
histogram generated during your analysis; however, 
it is important not to clutter your dissertation with 
unnecessary graphics. 
Titles, Captions, and Proper Formatting 
Each academic formatting style has specific rules for how 
tables and figures are labeled. All formatting styles require a 
title and caption for each visual aid. In APA 7th Edition style, 
the titles and captions of tables and figures always appear above _ 
the visual aid. The table/figure number comes first and should 
be in bold text. The title of the table/figure should be placed one 
144 
PhDONE 
line underneath in italics and is not bold. Tables should not be 
shaded, nor should they have any vertical lines separating the 
columns. When a table breaks across pages, you don’t need to 
insert “continued” or the title again, but you do need to repeat 
the first header row on the second page of the table. See Table 1 
and Figure 1 for examples of these elements in APA format. 
Table 1 
Summary of Descriptions of Level of Work-Life Balance by 
Graduate Students With Set Writing Schedules (n = 162) 
Categories 
Excellent 
Good 
Fair 
# of 
Comments 
Ee 
62 
35 
Selected Examples of Comments 
Structure keeps me on track, and I love having 
a set schedule. I write from 6am—11am and 
noon to 3pm every weekday, and keep a 
list of dissertation-related tasks other than 
writing (research, reference list cleanup, etc.) 
beside my computer in case I’m having trouble 
working on a particular section. I find that 
treating the dissertation as my 9—5 job means 
that I can close my computer and enjoy the 
evening with my partner. 
For the most part, I love having a set schedule. 
It gives me discipline and structure, and 
helps my family understand that writing 
my dissertation is my work. I do find that 
sometimes I have the best ideas at hours when 
I’m not supposed to be working, so I keep a 
journal around the house to jot down notes 
at those times, but try not to sit down to my 
computer otherwise. 
A set schedule worked extremely well for me 
when I was working on my master’s thesis, so 
I decided to do the same with my dissertation. 
But I had a baby during my PhD coursework, 
and now, my set schedule means that I’m both 
missing optimal work windows during naptimes 
and at odd hours of the night, and feeling guilty 
for working when the baby is awake. I might 
need to pivot to a more flexible approach. 
DATA: HOW T0 GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
145 
# of 
Categories 
8 
Comments 
Selected Examples of Comments 
Poor 
18 
I’'d hoped that adopting a rigid schedule would 
help me disconnect from my work at the end 
of the day, but it just means that I actually end 
up working more. I spend a lot of my set hours 
staring at a blank Word document, then wake 
up in the middle of the night thinking about 
my dissertation. 
Figure 1 
Pie Chart Showing Percentage of Dissertation Writers Interviewed 
for This Study Who Adopted a Set Writing Schedule vs. a Flexible 
Writing Schedule 
Set writing 
schedule 
Flexible writing 
schedule 
Note. Numbers inside parentheses in each of the wedges reports abso-_ 
lute number of interviewee responses for each category. Total number 
of interview participants = 500. 
146 
PhDONE 
A Note About Notes 
While not every table or figure needs a note, there are some 
instances where it’s necessary: 
e 
If your table is taken from an outside source, pro- 
vide a note that it’s “reprinted from” or “adapted 
from” another source. Then, cite the publication 
information for the original source in the appro- 
priate formatting style. As mentioned before, check 
with your department to determine if permissions 
are necessary. 
e 
You should specify p-values in a note. 
e 
If there’s any other information that you feel is nec- 
essary, or if you need to explain an abbreviation, 
add a note to the table or figure. 
Academic Styles: Citations, References, 
Footnotes, and Endnotes 
Overview 
Before you begin writing or researching your dissertation, 
make sure you know which academic style guide you'll be using. 
Different disciplines use different formatting styles, which can 
be confusing. While many specific styles are associated with dis- 
ciplines (APA with psychology, MLA with literature, Chicago 
Manual of Style with history, etc.), and universities usually 
provide graduate students with requirements for which to use, 
sometimes, which style guide to use is left up to the dissertation 
writer. In either case, waiting to select a style guide until you get 
‘to the reference list will lead to a huge headache. As well as refer- 
ences, style guides provide guidance that you'll need throughout 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
147 
the writing process, like how to format in-text citations, how to 
write numbers, and which writing style is appropriate. As such, 
be sure to check with your advisor/university and decide on which 
style guide you'll be using as early in the process as you can. 
Basics of APA Reference Format 
APA is the style of the American Psychological Association 
and is used for many dissertations across fields, especially in 
education and the social sciences. Because APA is often more 
scientifically focused than other styles and emphasizes the 
importance of up-to-date research, it foregrounds the publica- 
tion year of sources. In your text, if you’re using APA style, 
you'll provide authors’ last names and year of publication with 
in-text citations, presented in parentheses. In the reference list, 
you'll provide a full entry for all sources you cited in the text. 
With APA in particular, it’s important to conduct a “reference 
audit” to make sure that every source cited in your paper is 
listed in the references, and every source listed in the references 
is cited in your paper. This is one of the time-consuming but 
crucial tasks a professional editor can help with to save you sig- 
nificant time and stress. 
| 
The American Psychological Association released the 7th 
Edition of its manual in the fall of 2019. By the time of this 
publication, it has become the standard. Some of the major dif- 
ferences from the 6th Edition include: 
e 
In-text citations: In APA 7, in-text citations of 
sources with three or more authors should be 
referred to with the first author’s last name followed 
by et al., even the first time a work is cited (instead 
_ of listing up to five authors on first reference). 
148 
PhDONE 
e 
Subheadings: APA 7’s level 3 subheading is flush 
left, bold italic, and title case (formerly, this was 
indented and ended with a period). 
e 
DOI usage: In reference lists, APA 7 requires the 
DOI to be in full URL link form (https://doi.org/) 
rather than only listed as a number. 
Basics of Chicago Manual of Style 
Chicago style (abbreviated CMoS) is generally associated 
with humanities subjects, specifically history, as well as trade 
publications. Turabian is similar to Chicago style: it’s a sim- 
plified form of Chicago style designed for academic works like 
theses and dissertations. Both are put out by the University of 
Chicago Press, and most of the formatting elements are the 
same. The CMoS tends to be more publishing-oriented, whereas 
Turabian focuses on research papers and academic work. Some 
programs use the terms interchangeably, so it’s best to ask spe- 
cifically which formatting style you’re following, and what kind 
of citations are expected. 
There are two types of documentation used in Chicago 
style: author-date and notes/bibliography. Chicago author-date 
style is similar to APA, in that it includes in-text citations with 
(as the name suggests) the author and the date as well as a ref- 
erence list. In Chicago notes/bibliography style, the sources 
are cited as footnotes instead of in the text itself. Chicago style 
footnotes include all publication information, rather than just 
the author and date, the first time the work is cited, then a 
shortened citation thereafter. Note that the previous version 
of Chicago format used to use the term “Ibid.” for a footnote 
citing the same source as the previous footnote, but now short- 
ened citations are required instead. All sources cited in the text 
DATA: HOW TO GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
149 
correspond with a footnote. Unlike in APA, a Chicago style bib- 
liography at the end of the text should include all the sources 
cited but can also list works that you don’t cite directly but that 
helped inform your thoughts on the topic. The most current 
version of CMoS is the 17th edition (2017), which includes new 
material on metadata and citation guidelines for an increased 
range of online sources and other source types. 
Other Commonly Used Styles and Resources on How to Use Them 
There are many other academic style guides as well. Scholars 
in the humanities, especially subjects like comparative literature, 
criticism, or English, often use MLA style (developed by the 
Modern Language Association). Bluebook is the most widely 
used legal citation style and is used by most law schools for 
academic work. Bluebook does not include guidelines on manu- 
~ 
script formatting but does provide guidance for how to cite legal 
precedents, court cases, and other legislative materials. The 
AMA style, developed by the American Medical Association, is 
generally used for scholarly articles for health or medical jour- 
nals or dissertations in the medical field. The ASA (American 
Sociological Association) style is typically used in the field of 
sociology to help students and authors prepare papers and man- 
uscripts for ASA journals and other publications. Other style 
guides used less frequently include Vancouver, Institute of Elec- 
trical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), the Oxford Standard 
for Citation of Legal Authorities (OSCOLA), Harvard, and the 
Modern Humanities Research Association (MHRA). 
While the number of and differences between the style 
guides can feel daunting, resources are available to help you. 
Each style guide is associated with a publication that provides 
guidance on all aspects of the style. These often have an online 
150 
PhDONE 
as well as a print version. While these generally require a paid 
subscription, check to see whether your university library has 
access to a copy. There are also several free online resources 
that provide information on multiple style guides. However, 
be sure to check that you’re getting online resources from a 
reliable source. Those associated with university libraries and 
writing centers are generally a good bet, while citation genera- 
tors/less professional resources like EasyBib are not as reliable. 
The Purdue OWL (the website of their online writing lab) is 
especially trustworthy. 
Citation Software Systems: Pros, Cons, and an Overview of Options 
To help with managing what will probably be the longest 
list of references you’ve ever worked with, some writers elect to 
use software programs that manage citations and generate bib- 
liographies. For a long and often unwieldy project like writing 
a dissertation, it is extremely helpful to use a referencing system 
that stores your references and makes it easier for you to input 
citations into your dissertation. At the end of months—and 
sometimes years—of research, a software program just might 
save your sanity. Two primary software systems of this type 
include EndNote and Zotero. After you import the software to 
your word processor (usually MS Word), you can select which 
citation style you prefer and import references easily as you 
write. At the end of your dissertation, you can either manually 
or automatically generate a properly formatted bibliography. 
Another helpful feature is that your references, whether par- 
enthetical or footnotes, will be synchronized with your final 
bibliography. If at any point you delete a reference within the 
manuscript, it will be deleted automatically from the bibliog- 
raphy as well. 
DATA: HOW T0 GET IT, HOWTO ANALYZE IT, HOWTO PRESENTIT 
151 
While these tools can be extremely helpful in your disserta- 
tion process, they should be used with caution. They have some 
cons (like software updates), the need to pay for upgrades, and 
the fact that you’ll need to import your references’ publication 
information meticulously into the relevant fields to make sure 
your reference entries are generated accurately. You'll need to 
be willing to double-check that you’ve imported the informa- 
tion for your citations and reference entries correctly to ensure 
complete accuracy and alignment with your chosen style guide. 
Most students tend to love or hate these software platforms. 
You may be unwilling to put in the time and effort it would 
take for the software to generate error-free reference lists consis- 
tently. However, many PhD students could not imagine writing 
scholarship without these powerful tools. We like to imagine 
those individuals must have very tidy closets and sock drawers 
as well. 
Now that all required elements are included in your disser- 
tation draft, you can move to the process of revision and move 
swiftly toward finishing your dissertation. The next chapter 
addresses the revision and editing process, including a discus- 
sion of whether to hire an editor, as well as a description of the 
defense and final submission processes. 
CHAPTER 7 
Final Hurdles: Completing and 
Defending Your Dissertation 
Editing and Revisions 
© 
Benefits of an Outside Editor 
As a graduate student, you likely do not have a ton of dis- 
posable income—or any—and so you’re careful about how you 
spend your money. At first, it might seem like a professional 
editor is a luxury expense that you don’t really need, but it can 
be quite the opposite: a practical expense that can save you lots 
of time and money in the long run. 
An Editor Can Help You Be More Efficient 
. 
A professional editor provides personalized, specific feed- 
back on your writing style, strengths and weaknesses, subject 
matter, and content. This level of personalization is designed 
with your particular goals in mind. This keeps you from wasting 
time with generalized platitudes that might not be what you — 
really need. Time is money, and particularly if you’re paying 
153 
154 
PhDONE 
each semester to keep working on your dissertation, a profes- 
sional editor can help you reach your end goal faster, therefore 
cutting down on tuition expenses. 
An Editor Can Help Relieve Stress and Subsequently Increase 
Your Productivity 
It’s not a secret that dissertations and theses cause stress, 
and while multiple revisions and submissions are standard, 
this can be incredibly stressful and time-consuming. Stress can 
cause depression, anxiety, and even writing paralysis. If you’re 
pressed for time, those stress effects can add to the pressures 
you’re feeling. A professional editor can help you decipher and 
address comments from your committee and help you prioritize 
and focus on the major things you have to work on, saving you 
a lot of anxiety. Often, as a dissertation writer who has been 
looking 
at the same project for a long time, you’re simply too 
close to the subject to see it clearly and objectively assess the 
next steps you need to take. An editor can also assist you with 
proper formatting (like applying styles in MS Word, generating 
a table of contents, troubleshooting page numbers, and citing 
obscure types of references correctly), which is a major source 
of stress and anxiety for many students. 
You'll Be Able to Reach Your Career Goals Faster 
Many students are pursuing a graduate degree for career 
gains: to get a better job, change employers, or reach the 
next pay grade. Having to revise and resubmit repeatedly for 
multiple semesters can delay or derail your career plans. Profes- 
sional editors can help minimize the number of times you have 
to resubmit, helping you to finish your degree and reach your 
career goals in a timely way. 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETING AND DEFENDING YOURDISSERTATION 
155 
While peer editing can be valuable and certainly has its 
place, it’s hard to find a substitute for a professional editor. Pro- 
fessional editors have years of experience, in-depth knowledge 
of English grammar, expert writing and editing skills, and thor- 
ough knowledge of multiple style guides. Unless your peer is a 
professional editor, it will be hard for them to equal the services 
of professional editing and formatting. Similarly, university 
writing centers can serve as a great resource. However, their 
consultants are trained not to be directive or do any of the work 
for you. While we don’t write content for clients working on 
material for school credit (as that wouldn’t be ethical), a profes- 
sional editor can be much more active in revising your writing 
for you than a university writing consultant, helping decrease 
your workload. 
Regardless of how you get your writing edited, everyone 
~ 
knows it can be very difficult to edit your own writing. The 
dissertation process means that you necessarily get very close 
to your chosen subject and spend a great deal of time with your 
ideas and the writing in your dissertation. It can be easy to get 
so close to the dissertation that it’s hard to make any cuts to it, 
even if you know it’s necessary, and objectivity can be thin on 
the ground. Working with an editor—whether they are a friend, 
family member, colleague, or professional—is an integral part 
of the writing process for any serious work and should not be 
overlooked or underestimated. Good writing takes time, prac- 
tice, and help. 
Revision 
Revision involves looking at something anew—to see it again 
but from a different perspective. Students are often disappointed 
when instructed by advisors to revise and resubmit. The need to 
156 
PhDONE 
keep working on a draft is often perceived as failure, when the 
truth is revision is an integral part of the learning process. 
By going back over your writing, reshaping your para- 
graphs, and reorganizing your thoughts, you can clarify your 
ideas while also developing new ones. When Allen first started 
writing his dissertation, he sat down and wrote a chapter that 
turned out to be 20,000 words long in the first draft. After 
revising it, reorganizing thoughts, and fleshing out ideas, Allen 
turned that one chapter into three 10,000-word chapters that 
were much more eloquent, effective, and efficient. 
Marc had written a thematically organized dissertation 
about the representation of Black women in American the- 
ater produced between 1924 and 1984. Initially, he organized 
it thematically, according to the formal qualities of the plays 
studied: one on comedies, one on dramas, and one on post- 
modernism. He had completed a full draft but felt that his 
ideas weren’t hanging together. He had tried to make a cru- 
cial point about how the complexity of these representations 
ebbed and flowed over time, in relation to political and civil 
rights developments. 
Marc spent weeks reviewing the conclusions to each of his 
chapters, trying to make his points stronger and more eloquent, 
but it didn’t seem to make much of a difference. He then returned 
to some of the theory and philosophy texts he’d read to develop 
his conceptual framework, but nothing there lead him toward 
strengthening his argument either. One day, he met a friend 
completing a dissertation in a different field for coffee. Conver- 
sation turned to the problems they were experiencing in their 
dissertation, and his friend (an art history PhD candidate) made 
an offhand comment about his chronological, geographical 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETING AND DEFENDING YOUR DISSERTATION 
157 
structure: “I’ve organized it into the time periods and locations 
of Van Gogh’s career, but I’m having a hard time figuring out 
how to place general, thematic commentary on interior spaces 
when they are relevant to both the Paris and Arles chapters.” 
As soon as Marc returned to his apartment, he printed his 
entire dissertation, one paragraph to a page (another friend of 
his, who was completing her dissertation on climate change, 
later chastised him for this), and organized them according to 
material that related individual play texts. He then separated 
them into decades, wrote up a new outline, and started copy/ 
pasting text around his document (electronically this time, to 
be more environmentally friendly). Much more quickly than he 
anticipated, he had a new draft of an organization based on 
a chronological organizational scheme. Of course, new tran- 
sitions were needed throughout, the introduction had to be 
revised, and he had trouble fitting some of the old sections into 
the new structure. But on the whole, the new organizational 
system provided a more effective framework for Marc’s ideas, 
and the rest of the revision process flowed more naturally. 
There are two key takeaways from the story of Marc’s revi- 
sion process. First, sometimes a seemingly huge revision makes 
the process run more smoothly. Even though a thematic reor- 
ganization is a huge undertaking, it was less effort than all the 
dead ends Marc had tried before his friend’s fresh perspective 
led him in a chronological direction. Second, and crucially, the 
exact words of your first (or even your fourteenth) draft, are not 
the be-all-end-all of your ideas. Even if things change drastically 
as you revise your dissertation, it doesn’t mean that anything is 
lost in terms of your research, ideas, hard effort, or contribution 
to the knowledge in your field. 
158 
PhDONE 
The Importance of Proofreading 
During the dissertation writing process, a final proofread 
before submitting to your committee is crucial. Proofreading 
focuses on spotting and correcting superficial errors of grammar, 
spelling, diction, syntax, formatting, and punctuation. It’s inev- 
itable that there will be one typo in your dissertation—just as 
there will be in this book. We'll try our best to minimize that 
and at least make sure it’s not on the first page. This is in contrast 
with editing, which typically takes a more in-depth approach to 
sentence structure, ideas, arguments, diction, tone, flow, and 
organization. Proofreading is often one of the last steps before 
submitting your work, after all of the editing, revising, and 
rewriting is done. I’ve found two tactics for proofreading your 
own work to be particularly effective. First, reading the text 
out loud can help you catch errors you might not notice while 
reading through the document quietly. The effort of articulating 
each word helps highlight areas of awkwardness that make 
you stumble and removes the tendency to skim, letting your 
brain move more quickly than your eyes. The second strategy is 
reading the manuscript backward (paragraph by paragraph or 
sentence by sentence). This can help remove you from the flow 
and meaning of the argument and help you consider the words 
themselves, rather than the ideas to which they relate. 
It is often better to have someone other than yourself proof- 
read your paper. Once you have looked at your paper and 
your content for so many hours a day and for however many 
months and/or years, it becomes very difficult to catch small but 
obvious mistakes. An editor can also catch things a simple spell/ 
grammar check cannot. For example, if you’ve spelled a word 
correctly but it’s the wrong version of the word, a spell-check 
might not pick that up, but an editor will. If a sentence still 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETING AND DEFENDING YOUR DISSERTATION 
159 
doesn’t flow right or doesn’t convey your intended meaning, an 
editor will make surface fixes during proofreading. An editor 
will also be able to identify and correct formatting errors in the 
document, while a spell-check cannot. 
Use caution, as well, with tools like Grammarly. While that 
type of software certainly has a place, we find that many stu- 
dents treat it as the end-all-be-all of good writing and are gravely 
disappointed when a document that’s already been edited by a 
human returns with flagged issues after being run through the 
program. Our recommendation is that, if you’re going to use 
Grammarly or other AI editing software, do so as part of an 
earlier stage in the revision process, then move to human proof- 
reading. While it is undeniably smart, software still can’t do 
what humans can, and often has difficulty with key aspects of 
good APA-style writing, like removing anthropomorphism or 
© 
ensuring scholarly tone. 
Proofreading isn’t just confined to the dissertation or thesis 
process. When you write a business memo, professional paper, 
conference poster presentation, or business email, doing a quick 
proofread of your writing can help you catch embarrassing 
spelling errors 
(thanks, autocorrect!) 
or glaring mistakes. 
Taking the extra minute or two for proofreading, for even these 
smaller documents, can mean the difference between appearing 
polished and professional or disorganized and harried. 
Final Formatting 
; 
Dissertation formatting can be a beast in and of itself. aay 
students have written extensive compelling research culminating 
years of experience in one magnum opus, only to get completely _ 
flummoxed by automating their table of contents and getting 
the page numbers to shift from the Roman numerals of the 
160 
PhDONE 
front matter to the Arabic numbers of the main text. Final for- 
matting includes a number of elements, including: front matter, 
headings/subheadings, margins, page numbers, tables, figures, 
references, and appendices. 
The front matter consists of all the elements of text that 
appear before your first chapter. The APA manual—because 
it’s designed more for article publication than dissertations— 
doesn’t specify many of these elements, so you'll need to defer 
carefully to your university guidelines here. However, the front 
matter usually includes: title page, copyright page, signature 
page (where your committee members and advisor or other 
university leaders sign their approval), dedication, acknowledg- 
ments, abstract, table of contents, lists of tables and figures, and 
sometimes a list of acronyms. 
There’s no two ways about it, formatting can be a pain; 
however, here are some tips that can make it a little easier. Your 
future self will thank you! 
e 
Carefully review your university submission guide- 
lines. This cannot be understated. While you may 
have been told to “just follow APA,” it’s worth 
noting that most universities 
have their own 
idiosyncratic rules regarding margins, spacing, 
headings, and stuff like that. Some university 
guides are worse than others. There are several 
guides we’ve encountered that require the top 
margin on the first page of each chapter to be dif- 
ferent than the top margin on every other page: a 
total unnecessary headache! 
e 
If you’ve been given a template, use it! We con- 
stantly encounter students who have just written 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETING AND DEFENDING YOURDISSERTATION 
161 
their drafts on their own ignoring their universi- 
ty’s template. This creates a lot more work later 
as you have to cut, paste, or otherwise shoehorn 
an existing document into a university-approved 
template. If you just start writing in the tem- 
plate from the beginning, your future self will 
thank you! 
e 
Embrace MS Word Styles. Microsoft word has a 
feature that allows you to “style” different types 
of text. If you set up what “level 1” and “level 2” 
headings are supposed to look like in MS Word’s 
styles and then apply those to your headings 
throughout your document, you'll be able to gen- 
erate an automated table of contents. Lauren—who 
has now edited dissertations for a living for the 
past seven years—can vividly remember trying to 
create her table of contents manually. She’d type 
individual periods to get the page numbers to the 
right side of the page, rather than learning how to 
use a tab leader or the automated table of contents 
(they used to never line up). Worse, she inserted 
every page number manually, so she had to change 
each of them when she revised the text and the page 
numbers changed. 
— 
¢ Use styles with your table and figure titles. Just as 
the other heading levels will enable you to create an 
~~ 
automated table of contents, using styles with your 
tables and figures will enable you to create auto- 
mated lists of tables and lists of figures. 
e 
Cite 
and reference 
meticulously 
throughout the 
writing process. This was mentioned earlier, but 
162 
PhDONE 
bears 
repeating. 
Cleaning 
up your 
references 
and citations at the very end of the process can 
be laborious. 
If you’ve read the above tips and think, “oh crap I wish 
I'd done that” or, “oh no, what have I gotten myself into,” 
remember that the final formatting is one of the easiest things 
you can outsource to a professional. Maybe you don’t want to 
learn how to create and properly format automated tables of 
contents in Microsoft Word? There are certainly more inter- 
esting things to spend your time and energy on. Feel free to let 
someone else handle this part so you can focus your time and 
energy on the research you’re developing. 
When to Stop 
As we’ve discussed throughout this text, there is a point at 
which perfectionism is the enemy of completion. It’s important 
to put together a polished finished product, and imperative 
that it’s a piece of writing that you are proud of and of which 
your advisor approves. However, you will never be 100 percent 
happy with every aspect of it. You’ll regret some of the limita- 
tions to your research process and wish you could conduct parts 
of your study again. You'll still have a niggling feeling that you 
should have read one more book or article. You’ll wonder if it’s 
worth running your literature review terms through the library 
database again, in case new work has been published in the last 
couple of months. You’ll wonder if there was a better way to 
make that point in Chapter 5. Oscar Wilde is reported to have 
said, after a long day of writing: “I spent the morning putting 
in a comma, and the afternoon taking it out again.” If you’ve 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETINGAND DEFENDINGYOUR DISSERTATION 
163 
reached this stage of the process, your dissertation is PhDone. 
Now it’s time to prepare for your defense. 
Dissertation Defense Preparation 
The time has come: your dissertation or thesis defense is 
looming. You’ve spent months, if not years, working on your 
dissertation or thesis, and the process is almost over. Your 
committee members will need to review a final draft of your 
dissertation prior to the defense date. How much advanced time 
they require will vary from one university to the next, so be sure 
to double check that. Some institutions will simply allow you 
to email your dissertation to your committee members, while 
others may require you to distribute hard copies. Schools may 
handle the specifics of a defense differently from each other, so 
it’s important to find out exactly what is expected, what kinds 
of timelines you should anticipate, and what you need to do, but 
here are some general tips to help you prepare for your defense. 
Know Your Audience 
To make sure you prepare an effective defense, it is important 
that you know your committee well. Do your research on them. 
Know their areas of expertise, and plan accordingly. Read over 
the comments and feedback you’ve gotten and see how you’ve 
addressed any weaknesses or issues they’ve pointed out. Con- 
sider whether there are themes across the board in the comments 
from your readers about your dissertation. Do you know how 
these committee members generally act during a defense? What 
are they like in the classroom? Do you know anyone who had 
_ 
them on their committee? If you have an idea of what to expect, 
164 
PhDONE 
you can be better prepared for strong personalities, further 
questioning about comments they made before, or recurrent 
issues they have with topics in your work. 
Attend Other Defenses 
If you can attend dissertation defenses of others in your 
cohort, do it. You will get a sense of how defenses are run in 
your program, and you can take notes on what not to do and 
observe nervous habits to avoid. You'll see how other students 
use visual aids and PowerPoints, and how different kinds of pre- 
sentations are received. Pay as much attention to the examiners 
as you do to the student to see how they react. What works? 
What doesn’t? It will also reduce your fear of the unknown; 
you've already attended some defenses and have a better general 
idea of how the process will go for you. 
Be Prepared 
You cannot overprepare for this, but you certainly can 
underprepare. Practice your speech, go over your slides, go over 
any handouts you’re passing out, reread your dissertation and 
the notes from your readers, and do it all over again once you’re 
done. It’s also important to be aware of the habits you have 
when you get nervous. When you practice, be mindful of how 
you handle stress (e.g., do you talk faster?). If so, make sure you 
remember to breathe and speak slowly. Otherwise, your voice 
will feel high and tight in your throat, which will make you feel 
like you’re being strangled, and will make you more nervous. 
Remember to have a conversation with people you know and 
are rooting for you, however stern they might seem. For prep, 
ask a friend or family member to go through a trial run as your 
audience and ask you questions. Come up with questions you’d 
4 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETING AND DEFENDINGYOUR DISSERTATION 
165 
rather not be asked, and have answers prepared. At Dissertation 
Editor, we often provide defense coaching services in which we 
listen to your presentation and ask you questions as if we were 
on your committee. Going through the process ahead of time 
can make it feel much less intimidating. 
Know That Anything Can and Will Happen 
Even with the best preparation, the unexpected can happen. 
You might get some curveball questions or be challenged in 
ways you didn’t anticipate. You might not immediately have an 
answer to a question. You might stumble over an explanation, 
or the PowerPoint might not. work—you can’t control every- 
thing. That’s okay. Your preparation will help you get through 
it and allow you to focus on what you can control, and thus, 
move forward. 
Act the Part 
You’re the expert. This is your work, your dissertation. You 
are an expert on what you’ve written. You should know it inside 
and out. Don’t explain to the committee that you’re exhausted 
or that you were unsure about something. Don’t overdo the 
jargon, but do make sure to speak in a collected, knowledge-. 
able, professional way. Dress appropriately as well—don’t show 
up in jeans and a hoodie. The same “business casual” type 
attire you’d wear for a conference presentation or to teach a 
class would be appropriate here as well. 
The Night Before 
Get some sleep. You'll be nervous, yes. But don’t underesti- _ 
mate how much sleep you'll need. It will help keep you focused 
and sharp, as well as help you emotionally. 
166 
PhDONE 
Don’t forget—this is all preparation for the defense, but 
also be prepared for revisions to your dissertation after the 
defense. This is perfectly normal, and most students have revi- 
sions to make. Above all else, don’t panic. Even if you blank 
during the defense, have an attack of the nerves, or get a crip- 
pling migraine and feel like you’re looking at your committee 
through a kaleidoscope, your committee is attending your 
defense with the intention of having a good academic conver- 
sation and they likely won’t let you stop them from having it. 
While it is theoretically possible that you could fail your defense, 
it is highly unlikely. From a cynical but realistic perspective, 
your department gets a lot of heat from the administration to 
make sure that their pass rate is fairly high, otherwise, stu- 
dents would never bother with the school. And, like it or not, 
schools are businesses, and it’s bad optics for them to fail too 
many students. So, if you make it to the defense, for all intents 
and purposes, you’ve made it. Then again, if you show up and 
don’t make any sense during your defense, while you might 
begrudgingly get awarded the degree, don’t expect glowing 
recommendation letters. 
Enjoy Yourself 
It may seem counter-intuitive because the name defense 
implies that you should be defensive and ready to defend against 
an attack, but it doesn’t have to be this way. If you go into the 
defense with a tense, defensive mindset, then most likely that 
will be your experience. However, you can reframe the defense 
into a celebration. 
For probably the first and last time, you will have the 
amazing opportunity to sit in a room with four or five brilliant 
scholars (your committee) who have all meticulously pored over 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETINGAND DEFENDINGYOURDISSERTATION 
167 
your dissertation. No one is ever going to care about your schol- 
arship this much again. Relish it. 
No, seriously. If you look forward to the opportunity to 
pick the brains of these individuals to find out what their cri- 
tiques of your work are and how the project might be improved, 
you have just created invaluable feedback that can drastically 
influence the way you approach future publications (books, 
journal articles, etc.) that are based on this same research. The 
defense is often the first time these scholars (your committee) 
will have all sat in the same room to think about your research. 
A comment from one of them may spur another one on to make 
a thought or suggestion that has never come up before. These 
epiphanies can only happen in the hallowed halls of the disser- 
tation defense. This is a golden opportunity that students often 
miss because they are so fixated on the word defense that they 
enter the room defensively and fail to see the gift that this expe- 
rience can be if they choose to allow it to be one. 
Lastly, at most universities, you aren’t allowed to defend 
your dissertation without first gaining the approval of your 
advisor. As a result, most advisors aren’t going to feed their stu- 
dents to the wolves. Their own reputations are also at stake 
here. If your advisor feels like your dissertation is ready for 
defense, it probably is. There’s no reason to panic. There’s every 
reason to celebrate. 
Lauren passed her dissertation defense with minor correc- 
tions (fairly substantial revisions to the introduction, but not 
much to change in the rest of the document) and was congratu- 
lated by her advisor and two committee members. Her outside 
committee member paused and said, “the best adviceI can give _ 
you is to stay in this room for the next couple of hours taking 
notes before you go celebrate. The conversation we just had 
168 
PhDONE 
will help you with your final revisions, as well as with ideas 
for your future research.” Lauren thought that was great advice 
in theory, but in practice she waited just long enough for her 
outside committee member to return to her office, then pro- 
ceeded to the bar for celebratory drinks. She eventually made 
fairly detailed notes on topics covered during the defense, but 
the ideal best-of-both-worlds approach would likely be asking 
for permission to record the defense so that you’re both free 
to celebrate immediately after it and equipped with a detailed 
record of a conversation that will provide great direction for 
your dissertation revision process and future work. 
How to Create an Effective PowerPoint 
Giving a PowerPoint presentation is often the opening 
salvo of the dissertation defense. It sets the tone for what is 
to follow. A well-done PowerPoint can be a powerful thing. 
It can engage a crowd, teach students, convey your hard-won 
research findings, and help disseminate knowledge. The line 
between a good PowerPoint and a bad one, however, is too 
often crossed. Many clients come to us for assistance with their 
thesis or dissertation PowerPoints, needing editing and refor- 
matting because of negative feedback they’ve received. Here 
are some helpful tips on how you can construct an effective 
and engaging PowerPoint. 
| 
Focus on Substance, Not Style, at First 
We've seen clients who are preoccupied with their clip art, 
pictures, memes, fonts, colors, and designs instead of the actual 
material on the slides—and this never makes for a strong pre- 
sentation. Writing the text of your presentation is the first thing 
you should do, and until the text is revised and polished, don’t 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETING AND DEFENDING YOUR DISSERTATION 
169 
even think about the aesthetics of the PowerPoint. That will 
come later—and, really, it wouldn’t be the worst to give a pre- 
sentation sans PowerPoint. Still, the most important aspect of 
a visual aid is getting your main points across in a clear and 
concise way. 
Whatever You Do, Don’t Read From the Slides! 
If you have ever attended a horrible PowerPoint presen- 
tation, you will know that invariably it consists of someone 
reading aloud what is written on the screen. It’s only slightly 
more interesting than watching paint dry or grass grow, and 
it seems to progress at the same pace. Instead, make notes for 
yourself on what you are going to say while your audience takes 
in an image, table, graph, or figure. If you must put an outline 
of what you plan to discuss on the slides, make it as brief as pos- 
_ 
sible. Your audience wants to hear you speak and they can read 
so much faster than you can talk. If you tell them on the slide 
what you are about to say, you are, in effect, repeating yourself, 
which is what makes watching someone read a slide so boring. 
Brevity Is the Soul of Wit 
This old adage remains true, but it’s also something to keep 
in mind with PowerPoint presentations. Cluttered slides full of 
text often cause audience members to zone out or simply not 
pay attention to you. A PowerPoint should highlight main ideas, 
not consist of everything you’re going to say. 
£5 
Size Matters... for Graphics 
If you have graphs, charts, or visual representations of your 
__ 
data, make sure they are legible and easy to read. Same with 
text. So, avoid overloading slides, using hard-to-read fonts, 
170 
PhDONE 
including unnecessary images that don’t add much, and using 
creative “formatting.” See Figure 2 for an overly busy slide: 
Figure 2 
A Busy Slide 
A BUSY SLIDE 
This is a long block of text, which is 
difficult for your audience to read. 
You're also more likely to be tempted 
to read off the slide when there's a 
big chunk of text; bullet points 
conveying just the key points would 
likely be preferable. This is also in 
Comic Sans, which is a pet peeve of 
many, and is probably best avoided in 
this type of presentation. 
Make It Easy on the Eyes 
Once you have written and edited the text, then you can 
focus on making it pretty. Choose pops of color and a visual 
theme, but don’t go overboard. You don’t want a rainbow of 
colors on slides to distract the audience from the message. 
Avoid clip art if you can and use stock images instead. Use ani- 
mation very sparingly, if at all. When in doubt, go with simple, 
direct formats like bullet points or minimal text on the page, 
and align your text consistently. 
Less Is More: Really 
This one bears repeating because we see it all the time, over 
and over. Remember, a PowerPoint presentation is a supple- 
ment to your presentation rather than the whole presentation. 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETINGAND DEFENDING YOURDISSERTATION 
171 
You shouldn’t be reading from it; it should simply serve to rein- 
force the main concepts and points. 
Final Revisions and Form and Style Review 
As mentioned before, typically, final revisions are requested 
after a dissertation has been successfully defended. These can 
be minor things like missing citations or references, or they 
could be more substantial issues like elaborating on a par- 
ticular idea or concept that one or more of your committee 
members felt was underdeveloped in your dissertation. Your 
advisor should not, at this stage, have any revisions for you 
to make as they should have approved your dissertation prior 
to the defense. However, your other committee members may 
raise issues or concerns that were not previously voiced by 
your advisor. 
Fortunately, you do not have to defend your dissertation 
again once you have passed the defense. Some universities may 
ask you to submit your revised draft to your committee before 
they sign the signature page, while others may not. For the most 
part, it’s up to you to make the necessary corrections prior to 
submitting your final draft to the University. Before you are 
allowed to upload your dissertation to ProQuest, your disser- 
tation will still need to be checked by the University’s form and 
style reviewer. This is typically someone in the University, often 
affiliated with the library, whose task is to ensure uniformity 
among all the dissertations submitted at the university in terms 
of formatting. They are the ones making sure that you followed 
the university guidelines for issues of spacing, page numbers, 
margins, headings, and appropriate usage of academic style. 
These types of revisions often require another close look at 
your university template or guidelines for small details you may 
172 
PhDONE 
have missed (like spacing, proper use of subheadings, or ele- 
ments that are missing from your reference list, like DOIs). For 
more on this, see the earlier section on “Final Formatting” on 
page 159. 
Submitting Your Dissertation to ProQuest 
After your final revisions are complete, your manuscript has 
been edited, and you are finished with your thesis or disserta- 
tion, you'll usually be required to upload your manuscript to 
ProQuest. What is ProQuest, you might ask? ProQuest Central 
is the largest multidisciplinary full-text database on the market, 
providing access to 47 of ProQuest’s databases, encompassing 
more than 175 subjects, making it one of the largest research 
resources in the world. Every year, more than 130,000 disserta- 
tions are added to ProQuest. 
What’s Involved in Submitting My Manuscript to ProQuest? 
You can submit your dissertation or thesis to ProQuest 
in two ways: through the official online submission tool 
called ETD Administrator or through your school’s electronic 
submission method, which they then submit to ProQuest. 
It is typically required that you submit your document in 
PDF format, so make sure all the formatting is correct and 
appropriate prior to final submission. It cannot be pass- 
word protected and no digital signature should be on it. If 
you have any supplemental information—like spreadsheets, 
audio, or video—they need to be added as supplementary files 
and described in your abstract, along with any supporting 
documentation like reprint permission letters or third-party 
software licenses. 
FINALHURDLES: COMPLETINGAND DEFENDINGYOUR DISSERTATION 
173 
What About Embargo Options? 
Students have the option to embargo their manuscripts for 
one or two years. You might choose the embargo option so 
you can submit articles to journals for publication, if there are 
any patents pending, or if you’re concerned about data privacy. 
Some students want to turn their dissertation into a book, and 
an embargo may be a good choice if you’re thinking about this. 
People will then need to buy your book to read your research 
rather than being able to look up your dissertation online for 
free through their institution. If you’re planning to hold off until 
a new publication comes out, the longer the embargo the better. 
If you’re considering putting an embargo on your manuscript, 
talking with your dissertation advisor about it can help you 
make an informed decision. 
Will My Dissertation Be Copyrighted? 
If you live in the United States and want to register a copy- 
right for your dissertation, you can do this through the ETD 
Administrator in ProQuest by paying $55.00 to protect your 
manuscript and become immediately eligible for statutory 
damages and attorney fees. Copyright attaches at the time of 
creation, but registering for copyright makes it easier to sue 
should there be any infringement on your intellectual property. 
If you pay for the registration service, ProQuest submits the 
application to the United States Copyright for you and then 
gives you the certificate from the Library of Congress. Once 
your manuscript is published on ProQuest, a permanent link is 
created. This can be especially beneficial because it helps pro- 
tect your work and your intellectual property. 
Most importantly, congratulations are in order at this 
juncture, at which you have completed the gargantuan task of 
174 
PhDONE 
writing, finalizing, and editing your PhD! Before you do any- 
thing else, this is an important time to take a break, revisit 
some of the work-life balance questions discussed earlier and 
make time for celebration and rest. Lauren made the mistake of 
switching off a little too completely by removing her school email 
from her phone and missing an important deadline to register 
for spring graduation. She ended up unnecessarily waiting until 
summer. So, take some well-earned time to decompress, but be 
sure to set calendar reminders, etc., and stay on track with any 
institutional formalities you need to finalize the degree. After 
you’ve had a chance to recover and rebalance—and regain some 
objectivity regarding your manuscript—it’s time to turn to the 
next chapter and consider the next steps you can take with your 
completed dissertation. 
ene 
iter eeet 
: 
t 
Pada! 
gigs doe $f) 
t 
ewan 
sahil eileg 
ori 
ent 
ae 
eed 
tal geet: Slee piste 
ugehen: 
ateelesed eo oie 
tbh BAS Ra Cectae deve treo cade pat atom via 
th ia hasty et ees. Se 
ee om 
: 
; 
po 
, 
* 
- 
meee ee ie yi mye oe ee eae 
oe RR OF Oa ti ie eae TRS 
eh ore 
<u 
at 
the 
Se eget 
= 
i % 
ie 
, 
2 
A 
7 ‘oe 
CHAPTER 8 
Where Do You Go From Here? 
Publishing Your Research 
For most early career researchers interested in pursuing 
’ 
careers in academia, the dissertation becomes the first book 
they publish as a fully-fledged academic with a PhD. Impor- 
tantly, the book is based on the dissertation, but it is not the 
dissertation itself. As mentioned previously, the audience of 
your dissertation is the five-person committee appointed to 
determine if you are worthy of receiving your degree or not. 
A dissertation is not a compelling medium for conveying your 
research to a broad and interested scholarly audience. For that, 
you'll need to write a book or a journal article, and there’s a lot 
to consider in that process. 
Turning your dissertation into a scholarly monograph, and 
publishing it with a university press, is one of the first steps in 
advancing your career as an academic, gaining a wider scholarly 
audience for your work, and beginning to build your port- 
folio for applying for promotion or tenure later in your career. 
Depending on your field and your dissertation, an article placed 
175 
176 
PhDONE 
with a well-respected journal in your field might be an even 
more effective approach to establishing yourself as an expert in 
your dissertation’s area of study. 
Many doctoral graduates have no intention of pursuing 
careers in academia. However, without publishing their research 
in another format, they are ensuring that virtually no one will 
read it. How many dissertations had you read before starting 
graduate school? I’ll be shocked if the answer isn’t zero. Pub- 
lishing your research establishes you as a thought-leader in your 
field. It creates prestige and notoriety that extends far beyond 
the letters at the end of your name. For many of our clients 
who seek out our Dissertation-to-Book conversion service, 
publishing a book is the first step toward launching a new busi- 
ness or new career. Don’t let burnout at the end of the doctoral 
journey lead to wasted opportunities. Publish your research 
while it is still fresh and exciting. 
My Book Is My Brand 
Doctoral students should realize that their dissertations 
and subsequent publications brand them, for better or worse, 
and affect their futures. The dissertation and/or book title will 
appear near the top of their career vita and will make an impres- 
sion on the reader. This is a feature of the work that may lead 
to alterations in their topic or their approach according to their 
career aspirations. Most importantly, choosing to publish your 
dissertation as a book or article is the moment this branding 
will most fully occur, and so it’s an important time to consider 
changes you want to make to it, or particular parts of it you 
want to focus most on emphasizing. 
Imelda, a doctoral candidate at Pepperdine, approached her 
advisor with a dissertation plan to study the complex identities of 
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE? 
177 
Black women. This topic is sometimes labeled “intersectionality,” 
emphasizing the identities of people who live at the intersection of 
two mostly visible identities. Imelda proposed an interview-based 
study to inquire into women’s self-concept at this intersection. 
Most studies of this subject had used a qualitative approach, 
exploring Black women’s identity by discovering themes in their 
discourse. Imelda wanted to continue in this tradition. 
Imelda and her advisor talked, trying to shape the general 
idea into something dissertation-worthy that hadn’t already been 
covered in the literature. “I want to take a different approach, 
maybe try to define various identity statuses more clearly in my 
interviews,” Imelda said. Her advisor remembered, from having 
Imelda in classes, that she was unusually quick to grasp statis- 
tical principles and see how they apply to research methods. 
| 
Also, Imelda was an ambitious student who wanted to establish 
herself in academia: “I want to be a name people know in my 
area of study.” With this knowledge, the advisor suggested that 
Imelda try a statistical analysis to explore her research ques- 
tion. Maybe qualitative researchers had uncovered all there was 
to uncover, and it was time to establish quantitative evidence. 
Furthermore, given the values of prestigious departments at the 
time, writing a statistical dissertation would place Imelda ahead 
of other researchers in her area. 
The two discussed multidimensional scaling, an approach 
that attempts to discover discrete groupings of subjects based 
on their similarities and differences in response to established 
scales—in this case, measures of Black identity status and wom- 
en’s identity status. Imelda hadn’t learned multidimensional 
scaling in classes, but her advisor assured her that she could 
learn it and gave her some sample articles, and the two had 
tutorial meetings on the approach. 
178 
PhDONE 
Imelda’s analysis was a success—four distinct groups of 
Black women emerged: Black identity foremost, woman identity 
foremost, engaged mixed identity, and aware but not engaged 
mixed identity. Gendered racial identity among Black women 
was not a homogenous construct, as a common misconception 
claimed earlier. Aspects of Imelda’s dissertation were quickly 
and smoothly accepted for publication in a major journal, and 
she became a notable and widely cited name in her field. Imelda 
started focusing on her brand at an early stage in the process, 
leading to great success in publishing. 
Is My Dissertation a Book, an Article, or Both? 
The first thing to consider is your field and the structure 
of your dissertation. If you conducted a study and submitted a 
five-chapter dissertation, it might lend itself well to becoming 
your first article. In the types of fields that tend to require a 
five-chapter dissertation (for example, education, psychology, 
sciences, business, and nursing), the ideal avenue for the pub- 
lication of academic studies is top journals in the field. Such 
articles often contain the exact same sections as a dissertation 
(introduction, literature review, methodology, results, and dis- 
cussion), so your article may be a (very) abridged version of 
your dissertation document. In humanities fields that have a 
more flexible dissertation format (literature, history, theatre, 
and some fine arts), the decision between article and book is 
often based on the amount of material already published on 
your subject, the structure of your dissertation, and the amount 
of material that will need to be added to it for it to function 
as a monograph. Lastly, you may want to consider the length 
of the dissertation you’ve written and the amount of material 
you have. Some disciplines allow for very short dissertations (80 
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE? 
179 
to 120 pages). These dissertations are excellent candidates for 
articles due to their already somewhat abridged nature. Other 
disciplines require much longer dissertations, which would 
make them better candidates for converting into a book or into 
both a book and an article. 
Time is another important factor to consider here. Revising 
and publishing an article is likely to take significantly less time 
than converting your dissertation into a scholarly monograph, 
so publishing one chapter as an article first, then moving for- 
ward with the book revision process, may allow you to get your 
ideas out there more quickly. If other researchers are working 
on similar topics, it’s important to be mindful of not letting 
an inordinate amount of time pass before your book or article 
is published. 
How to Convert Your Dissertation into a Book 
As mentioned before, your dissertation is best understood 
as a very early rough draft of your first book. On book pro- 
posals for academic publishers, there is often a question asking 
whether the monograph is based on your dissertation and, if 
so, what substantial revisions you’ve already undertaken. Pub- 
lishers want to see that you’ve made significant changes to take 
the text from dissertation to a book appropriate to their wider 
scholarly audience. Here are some tips on how to do it. 
You Can’t Submit Your Dissertation for Publication “As Is” 
You are rightfully proud of the dissertation you produced 
and its acceptance by a group of your academic superiors. But 
a dissertation is never publisher-ready: that is, don’t even try to - 
send your unedited dissertation to a press. They will immedi- 
ately reject it. 
180 
PhDONE 
Dissertations tend to be narrower in focus than publishable 
books and often have stilted formats and language that must be 
revised for publication. This is not to denigrate the hard work 
that you have done, but rather to underscore that a first draft 
needs further revision. Unlike a dissertation, a book doesn’t 
have to challenge existing paradigms as much as it has to con- 
tribute to a growing body of scholarship. 
Heed the Criticisms of Your Dissertation Committee 
Take advantage of the issues and potential problems raised 
in your dissertation defense. Your defense was a rare opportu- 
nity to present your work to a committee of experts exclusively 
focused on you and your ideas. Resist the urge to be defen- 
sive when you hear criticism of your dissertation. Graciously 
receiving the constructive criticism of other scholars will only 
make you better. During your defense, jot down your com- 
mittee members’ thoughts and eventually use them to make 
your book even better. If you are overwhelmed by this pro- 
cess, consider asking a good friend to attend your defense and 
take copious notes for you. If your defense is closed to the 
public, consider taking time after your defense to record your 
thoughts and notes on the issues raised before you forget them. 
Even if it’s the last thing you want to do after a successful 
defense, these notes may prove invaluable to your future 
endeavors (and a little more time chilling is unlikely to hurt 
the champagne). It has already been mentioned in an earlier 
chapter that Lauren skipped this process to hit the bar. If you 
need a long exhale after this extremely stressful stage of your 
academic journey, then take it, take it immediately, and sort 
out the details later. Lastly, some institutions will allow you 
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE? 
+181 
to make an audio recording of the proceedings. This shouldn’t 
replace your notes, but it can be an effective tool for retrieving 
specific ideas and contributions from your faculty. The com- 
ments from your committee could generate the core of your 
new focus in the book to come. 
Take a Break From Your Dissertation 
You probably won’t be tempted to do this anyway, but don’t 
jump into your revisions immediately after you graduate. Give 
yourself some time to mull it all over (some people take years, 
we recommend several months). Ask yourself: What parts of my 
research or work did I enjoy the most? What turned out to be 
most compelling? What chapters worked and which ones need 
significantly more work? 
Don’t be afraid to cut chapters wholesale from your manu- 
script. Sometimes you have to start fresh, even if it means going 
back to the archives or pulling out your research again. Now 
that you are older and hopefully wiser, you will have fresh eyes 
and a new perspective. Take some time after graduation to relax, 
but also just to think about the dissertation and what it might 
look like as a book—don’t rush into book mode. Think about 
what worked, what didn’t, what you want to cut, and what you 
want to explore in more detail, now that you have the freedom 
to do so. Let ideas percolate and see what comes to the surface. 
Appealing to a Wider Audience 
You were writing your dissertation to please fewer than ten 
people; in contrast, 
a book must appeal to a larger and more 
diverse audience. For a publisher to accept the research and 
ideas present in your dissertation, you have to scale back on the 
182 
PhDONE 
academic jargon. If you haven’t done so already, you need to 
develop a personal writing style that sets you apart and attracts 
the editors at the press you are targeting for publication. Your 
advisor or colleagues can be helpful in directing you toward the 
best fit for your subject matter and personal style. 
Length is another important consideration when con- 
verting a dissertation 
into a book. Depending on your 
publisher’s requirements, you may either need to expand the 
manuscript, or make cuts to it. You may need to remove those 
long and unwieldy footnotes—if applicable. Publishers will 
humor more established scholars and allow them to include 
50-100 pages of notes and references, but for the rest of us, it 
is wise to include only the most relevant and important ones 
and to keep them short and to the point. Also, if you’ve quoted 
a lot of material from various primary and secondary sources, 
you will likely have to cut out a lot of it. Publishers will likely 
require you not to go over a set number of quoted words. Oth- 
erwise, they will have to pay the publishers of those works to 
reprint the various sections you’ve quoted. Similarly, if you 
used copywritten images or materials in your dissertation, 
you may need to seek additional permissions to use them in 
your publication. 
Rethink Your Purpose 
You had something to prove with the dissertation and 
needed to cite and cross-reference extensively to prove your 
knowledge and to prove that you read every possible book and 
article even remotely related to your topic. In a book, you don’t 
need to do that as much (although you do cite when necessary). 
It is assumed you’re knowledgeable about the subject—that’s 
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE? 
183 
why you're writing the book. Take another look at your topic 
and your objective with fresh eyes. What might be changing as 
it turns into a book? 
Cut It Out 
All that clunky, academic jargon? Rewrite it into more con- 
versational, yet smart language. You want people to be able to 
read and enjoy your work, and the jargon isn’t necessary. It’s 
likely that you'll need to cut a lot of the cross-referencing, data, 
and footnotes, or at least incorporate much of it into your actual 
text, if you keep it. 
Find Your Voice 
You’ve been in school for so long, and, with the disserta- 
| 
tion, were at the mercy of your committee, with multiple people 
to please. This can result in a lack of voice on the page. Take the 
time to find your voice and writing style. Do some free writing 
or journaling. Write some op-eds or response pieces, even if 
they’re for your eyes only. Write about something you love or 
find interesting and ask others to read it and provide feedback. 
The voice on the page can make or break a book, no matter how 
fascinating the subject is—if there’s no voice, there’s no book. 
Some great books to help you find your writing voice include 
On Writing Well: The Classic Guide to Writing Nonfiction by 
William Zinsser; and The Artist’s Way by Julia Cameron. Don’t 
let the last one scare you off—it’s wonderful for writer’s block 
and developing your style and voice. Also, take a look at the 
monographs of others you admire. How did they turn their dis- 
sertations into books? With ProQuest, you can read the “before 
and after” to see just what they did. 
184 
PhDONE 
Converting Your Dissertation (Or Part of It) 
Into a Journal Article 
After spending years of your life on a dissertation, it’s 
important for it to see the light of day. As mentioned in the 
previous section on converting it into a book, no one reads dis- 
sertations. But you’d like to have people read your research, 
right? For a broader public audience, a book is perhaps the best 
bet in terms of prestige, accessibility, and, of course, getting paid 
when people purchase it. Be warned, the book royalties on the 
average academic monograph won’t go very far to buying that 
chateau in Nice that you’ve had your eye on. Though not even 
providing the meager royalties of an academic book, a journal 
article can be a great addition to your publication strategy. 
Placing your research in an academic journal gives you the 
credibility of having had your work accepted by a venue that 
vets its contributions through a peer-review process. It also puts 
your research into the hands of the people who are likely to care 
about it the most—other scholars in your field. If you are plan- 
ning to pursue a career in academia, publishing journal articles 
is an absolute must. Even if your career path is taking you else- 
where, establishing yourself as a recognized thought leader in 
your field through journal publication is definitely a feather in 
your cap. 
A journal article is also a great complement to a book— 
especially if you are self-publishing. The journal article isn’t 
nearly as long and only provides the readers with one facet of 
your research. If they want the whole story, then they need to 
buy the book! 
Lastly, a journal article is a much easier project than a 
book conversion, simply because it isn’t that long. Journal arti- 
cles range from 3,000 to 10,000 words (twelve to forty pages) 
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE? 
185 
depending on the journal. Whereas a full book manuscript is a 
much larger (and more involved) project. 
How to Create a Journal Article From Your Dissertation 
The first thing to consider when creating a journal article 
is the target journal. Where are you planning to submit your 
article? Obviously, the first place to look is the flagship journals 
of your field. Undoubtedly, a handful should immediately come 
to mind. Beyond that, review your own reference list. Where are 
the articles you cited in your research published? Would one of 
those journals make a good home for your article? 
Selecting the journal goes hand-in-hand with selecting the 
argument from your research that you wish to present. You 
aren’t going to share the entire research project in one article, 
. 
but rather are going to select an important aspect of your work 
for publication. As you think about your subtopic, you'll also 
think about your target journal. Ideally, it will be an obvious 
connection between your target journal and the general thrust 
of your argument. That will be the best recipe for acceptance. 
Drafting the Article 
Much like every other type of academic writing, you will be 
well served by extensively outlining your argument before you 
start writing. This will help you organize your ideas and get a 
sense of the trajectory of the entire article before you sit down 
in front of the blank screen of death. Since you are basically 
reshaping material you have already researched, you should 
know about the topic already. It’s just a matter of selecting What 
to exclude—which is easier said than done. For that reason, 
instead of trying to cut your dissertation down to an article, 
we recommend creating an outline for the article first, deciding 
186 
PhDONE 
what you are going to include, and then slowly adding that 
material until you have developed the article in its entirety. It is 
unlikely that you will cut and paste much from your disserta- 
tion. More often, you will rewrite that material as it will need to 
be said differently in this shorter format. Another tip would be 
to outline some articles from the target journal and then modify 
those outlines to fit your material. 
Once you have drafted the article, edit it, revise it, and have 
it proofread by friends or professionals. Double check that you 
have followed the submission guidelines to the “t”. When it is 
time to submit the article, you: want to be sure that you are 
making the best first impression possible. The last thing you 
want is for your article to be rejected due to issues with grammar 
or formatting. And such rejections are all too common with 
journals. When editors see formatting errors, they will often 
reject an essay without even reading it. 
What Do | Do If My Article Is Rejected? 
First, take a deep breath. Second, take another deep breath 
for good measure. This is not the end of the world and does 
not mean that you have conducted poor scholarship. It prob- 
ably means that this research simply wasn’t meant for that 
journal. Allen’s first article was rejected. He sent it to a second- 
tier journal because he was hoping for an easy win. When he 
got the news, he was devastated for a couple of weeks, until 
a friend told him to make a few tweaks and send it to a dif- 
ferent journal—just to see what would happen. Sure enough, 
the same article was accepted by the flagship journal in Allen’s 
field. A year or so later, that article won an award at a national 
conference for its contribution to the field. When an article gets 
rejected, it could be for any number of reasons, including, but 
WHERE DO YOU GO FROM HERE? 
187 
not limited to, what the editor had for lunch that day and how 
well he or she slept the night before reading your draft. What- 
ever you do, don’t despair. 
As mentioned earlier, a rejection from one journal often 
comes with advice for revising and improving your draft before 
submitting it elsewhere. Revision is key to producing good 
scholarship. The next time you submit your article, it will be 
better. That still doesn’t mean it will get accepted. However, if 
you have fully addressed the feedback you received on the first 
submission, then the odds are in your favor. 
Conclusion: PhDone 
A dissertation is a singular experience. There’s nothing quite 
like it, and completing it admits you to membership in an 
eclectic but smart circle of fellow doctors. Whether you 
choose to stay in academia, using your hard-earned wisdom 
to shepherd future doctoral candidates through the disserta- 
tion process as an advisor, or apply your skills in a differ- 
ent field, completing a dissertation is a point of pride and 
an extreme sort of academic exercise that will refine your 
thinking and communicating, giving you a new and enduring 
professional edge. 
| 
Not only does it entitle you to the title of doctor and status as 
a world expert in your area of study, but it also equips you with 
skills that will remain with you for the rest of your career and 
life. You can use the writing strategies you fine-tuned during the 
process of drafting your dissertation when you write your next 
several books or articles. You can apply your research skills to 
your role with a nonprofit, turning up grants none of your col- 
leagues had even heard of. You can navigate challenges with the 
knowledge that—given the right preparation, and the insight 
of those who have undertaken the process before you—you are 
190 
PhDONE 
more than capable of competing with them. Writing a disserta- 
tion is a long and difficult process, but if you are determined, 
then nothing can stop you from completing your goal. You can 
be PhDone. 
q
~ 
ao 
‘ 
= 
‘ 
r 
-~. 
= 
(pss 
See 
aereeery 
175: 
Mert? 
ee 
hitpe 
ran 
Ma 
23 
Veta <x 
eZ 
a3 
“ 
« 
eT? 
7 
t+ 
os 
acta 
beeen 
a 
ee 
— 
ae 
eva 
> 
= 
IS 
rel Mer ot, 38 
get 
<P. =$e F Se Fer 
O Te eS PS 73S 
S727 
533 
ey S oo 8 mcg 
my? 
= § i 
erae ee tee ie Te xy 5 io tet ay ne 
Ge ae ee Faaet b: 
bos 2bhay ty sie gat dtenei # goisdamde sale. fies. 
ere on i etiw vest 
gaisipes augobrse a ee. bes 
siekeetge c 
ms 
References 
American Psychological Association. (2020). The publication 
manual of the American Psychological Association (7th ed.). 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0000165-000 
Booth, W. C., Colomb, G. G., Williams, J. M., Bizup, J., & 
FitzGerald, W. T. (2016). The craft of research (4th ed.). 
The University of Chicago Press. 
Cameron, J. (2016). The Artist’s Way. Tarcher Perigee. 
Eco, U. (2015). How to write a thesis (C. M. Farina & Geoff Farina, 
trans.). MIT Press. (Original work published 1977). 
Elbow, P. (2012). Vernacular eloquence: What speech can bring to 
writing. Oxford University Press. 
Goodwin, D. (1987). The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys. Simon 
and Schuster. 
Graff, G., & Birkenstein, C. (2014). “They say /I say”: The moves 
that matter in academic writing (3rd ed.). W.W. Norton & 
Company. 
Kirkpatrick, D. D. (2002a, January 5). 2 say Stephen Ambrose, pop- 
ular historian, copied passages. The New York Times. https:// 
www.nytimes.com/2002/01/05/us/2-say-stephen-ambrose- 
popular-historian-copied-passages.html 
192 
PhDONE 
Kirkpatrick, D. D. (2002b, June 5). Author Goodwin resigns from 
Pulitzer board. The New York Times. https://www.nytimes. 
com/2002/06/01/us/author-goodwin-resigns-from-pulitzer- 
board. html 
Lamott, A. (1995). Bird by bird: Some instructions on writing and 
life (1st Anchor Books ed.). Anchor Books. 
O’Conner, P. T. (2009). Woe Is I: The grammarphobe’s guide to 
better English in plain English (3rd ed.). Riverhead Books. 
Rabiner, S. (2003). Thinking like your editor: How to write great 
serious nonfiction and get it published. Norton. 
Silvia, P. J. (2019). How to write a lot: A practical guide 
to productive academic writing (2nd ed.). American 
Psychological Association. 
Strunk, W., White, E. B., & Elwyn B. (2000). The elements of style 
(4th ed.). Allyn and Bacon. 
Zinsser, W. K. (1998). On writing well: the classic guide to writing 
nonfiction (6th ed.). HarperCollins. 
Acknowledgments 
We owe the completion of this book to the support of many 
individuals who were generous with their time and wisdom over 
the years. 
First, thank you to current and former members of the Dis- 
sertation Editor team who contributed ideas, wrote blog posts, 
~ 
read early drafts, or provided key editorial and practical sup- 
port as we developed this work for publication, namely Jaime 
Herndon, Alexandra Appolloni, Margaret Farrell, Susie Day, 
Joseph Hurtgen, Dawn Leach, and Rushika De Bruin. 
Thanks also to Dissertation Editor Staff members who 
edited, proofread, and otherwise supported us in the later stages 
of the project by creating space for us to finish this book, namely 
Anna Malik, Ian Bailey, Marquita Hockaday, Julia Karczewski, 
Regina Forner, Adrienne Dougherty, Stephanie Higgs, Sara 
Cole, Judith Jackson-Pomeroy, and Caryn Austen. 
Thank you to several members of Kevin Anderson & Associ- 
ates for all your feedback and editorial support—your thoughtful 
contributions meant a lot and helped bring this book to its final 
form. Namely, Linda Alila, David Cashion, Jennifer Cassius, 
Hannah Gomez, Jaime Coyne, Jaime Levine, Lee Moreau, 
194 
PhDONE 
Erika Niven, and Jessica Sindler. How lucky are we to get the 
support of so many talented former acquisitions editors?! 
A special thanks to Stephen S. Power, executive editor at 
Kevin Anderson & Associates, for the rounds of review and 
insightful feedback you provided. You’re almost as funny as 
you are brilliant, and your feedback was a huge help to us in 
framing and structuring this book into its final form. 
Thank you to Michael Campbell and Tony Lyons at Sky- 
horse Publishing for their work in bringing this work to 
fruition, and the team at Simon & Schuster for distributing this 
important book. 
Thank you to Mat Connolley for developing the PhDone 
website. 
A big thanks to our incredible families and friends for all 
your love and support, especially our spouses: Whitney Moore 
Roda, Tom Saunders, and Jaime Anderson. Thank you for all 
the small and big things you do every day that made it possible 
for us to put the time and energy needed into developing and 
launching this book. 
Finally, thank you to the thousands of clients who shared 
their hard-earned wisdom, struggles, and triumphs with us 
over the years. Our conversations with them have shaped our 
thoughts on this topic and enabled us to share this guidance to 
benefit other dissertation writers. 
About the Authors 
Dr. Allen Roda is CEO of Diss- 
ertation Editor (dissertation-editor 
.com) and cofounder of its UK coun- 
terpart Thesis Editor (thesis-editor. 
co.uk). He and his team have engaged 
with over 3,500 doctoral students in 
every field of higher education from 
over five hundred universities. In the 
process, they have established themselves as global leaders in 
doctoral support services. 
Dr. Roda earned a BA in Anthropology, magna cum laude, 
from Wake Forest University, a Master’s in Anthropology from 
Columbia University, and a PhD in Ethnomusicology from NYU, 
where he was awarded Fulbright and AIIS research fellowships 
and was selected for the NYU Global Research Initiative in 
London. Afterward, he held the prestigious Jane and Morgan 
Whitney Curatorial Fellowship at The Metropolitan Museum 
of Art and was a professor at The New School and NYU. His 
publications have won several awards, including the Frances 
Densmore and Klaus Wachsmann prizes from the American 
Musical Instrument Society and Society for Ethnomusicology. 
He currently lives in North Carolina with his wife and two sons. 
196 
PhDONE 
Lauren 
Dr. Lauren Saunders is the Vice 
President of Editing and Research 
for Dissertation Editor, where she 
previously served as an editor and 
managing editor. She earned a BA 
in Dance and a BFA in Creative 
Writing, summa cum laude, from 
Chapman University, an M.Phil. in 
Irish Literature from Trinity College, Dublin, awarded with 
distinction, and a PhD in Literary Studies from the University 
of Denver, where she received the Arts, Humanities, and Social 
Sciences Divisional Dissertation Fellowship. In addition to a 
decade 
of experience in university writing centers, she designed 
and taught courses in the University of Denver writing pro- 
gram and English department. She lives in Colorado with her 
husband and daughter. 
Kevin 
Kevin Anderson is the founder of 
Dissertation Editor and cofounder of 
its UK counterpart, Thesis Editor. 
He is also the CEO and Editor- 
in-Chief 
of Kevin Anderson & 
Associates (KAA), a book-writing, 
ghostwriting, editorial services, and 
publishing navigation firm. With 
offices in NYC, Nashville, LA, and London, KAA works with 
numerous bestselling and award-winning authors, literary 
ABOUT THE AUTHORS 
197 
agents, major publishers, and a variety of public figures, 
professionals, and aspiring authors. Kevin has edited over 
fifty national bestsellers and is also a contributing author to 
Publishers Weekly’s Book Publishing Almanac 2022: A Master 
Class in the Art of Bringing Books to Readers. 
Kevin grew up on a small farm in a remote area of Northern 
Alberta, Canada. He completed his BA in history and philos- 
ophy magna cum laude at the University of Lethbridge, and his 
Master’s degree at Harvard University in 2007, with a concen- 
tration in literary theory and criticism. 
Kevin currently lives in the Boston area and spends his free 
time enjoying the outdoors, performing music, and traveling 
abroad with his wife and four children. 
Dissertation Workshops and Seminars for Students 
Dr. Roda and Dr. Saunders are available for in-person or online 
workshops and seminars for doctoral candidates. Please con- 
tact info@dissertation-editor.com for more information. 
cee 
; 
| 
US $19.99/CAN $26.99 
Everything You Need to Finally Finish Your Doctorate 
“T wish I’d had this when I was working on my own dissertation! An invaluable 
guide to the ins and outs and do’s and don’ts of finishing your PhD thesis and 
getting your degree. ’'m definitely going to share it with my own students.” 
2 
—DR. MICHAEL BECKERMAN, Carroll and 
Milton Petrie Professor of Music, New York University 
“As one who has directed a writing center for years, I say with confidence 
that this book offers a great deal of essential advice . 
. 
. Wise, savvy, and 
extensive—a very valuable resource.” 
—DR. BRIAN GLASER, Associate Professor and 
former Writing Center Director, Chapman University 
Based on decades of experience working with thousands of doctoral can- 
didates, professional dissertation editors Dr. Allen Roda and Dr. Lauren’ 
Saunders deliver a comprehensive yet accessible guide filled with practical 
advice, illuminating stories, and hard-earned wisdom that will empower you 
to complete your dissertation and earn your degree. 
In PhDone, you'll also learn how to: 
¢ Formulate your abstract and write your introduction 
-* Maintain a schedule, productive workspace, and work-life balance 
* Research your topic and build a literature review 
. 
* Develop research questions, conduct research, and obtain IRB approval 
* Properly analyze results and formulate conclusions 
: 
+ Navigate dissertation committees and advisor-advisee relationships 
* Nail your defense and earn final approval 
Wherever you are in your doctoral journey, this book gives you the tools 
need to conquer academia’s biggest challenge and get PhDone. 
Bs 
t 
wi 
@ 
< SKYHORSE PUBLISHING, INC. 
ISBN. 1G: 1-8 
1.6107. Tes .. 
~ 
@, New York, New York 
5199 oD 
aa www.skyhorsepublishing.com 
ak 
a | 
Cover design by David Ter-Avanesyan 
© 
Cover illustration by Shutterstock 
Printed in the United States of America 
9°781510° 77853 
