HOW TO WRITE A  
SCIENTIFIC PAPER 
 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
HOW TO WRITE A  
 
SCIENTIFIC PAPER  
 
AN ACADEMIC SELF-HELP GUIDE FOR PHD  
 
STUDENTS  
 
JARI SARAMÄKI 
 
 
4 
 
Copyright 
© 
2018 
by 
Jari 
Saramäki  
 
All 
rights 
reserved.  
 
No part of this book may be reproduced in any form or by any electronic  
 
or 
mechanical 
means, 
including 
information 
storage 
and 
retrieval 
systems,  
 
without 
written 
permission 
from 
the 
author, 
except 
for 
the 
use 
of 
brief  
 
quotations in a book review.  
 
 
5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For my students 
 
 
6 
 
 
 
7 
 
CONTENTS 
WHO SHOULD READ THIS BOOK ...................................................... 1 
AND WHY? .............................................................................................. 1 
WHY DOES WRITING FEEL SO HARD? ............................................ 4 
STORY ...................................................................................................... 9 
HOW TO CHOOSE THE KEY POINT OF ........................................... 11 
YOUR PAPER ........................................................................................ 11 
HOW TO CHOOSE THE SUPPORTING ............................................. 16 
RESULTS ................................................................................................ 16 
HOW TO WRITE THE ABSTRACT .................................................... 20 
HOW TO CHOOSE THE TITLE ........................................................... 25 
OUTLINE ................................................................................................ 29 
THE POWER OF OUTLINING ............................................................. 31 
HOW TO WRITE THE INTRODUCTION, .......................................... 35 
PART I: STRUCTURE ........................................................................... 35 
HOW TO WRITE THE INTRODUCTION, .......................................... 38 
PART II: A FOUR-PARAGRAPH TEMPLATE .................................. 38 
HOW TO WRITE THE INTRODUCTION, .......................................... 43 
PART III: THE LEDE ............................................................................. 43 
HOW TO WRITE THE MATERIALS AND ......................................... 47 
METHODS .............................................................................................. 47 
HOW TO WRITE THE RESULTS, PART I: ........................................ 52 
FIGURES ................................................................................................ 52 
HOW TO WRITE THE RESULTS, PART ............................................ 58 
II: TEXT .................................................................................................. 58 
HOW TO WRITE THE DISCUSSION .................................................. 62 
8 
 
WORDS ................................................................................................... 67 
HOW DOES YOUR READER READ? ................................................. 69 
HOW TO WRITE YOUR FIRST DRAFT ............................................. 74 
HOW TO EDIT YOUR FIRST DRAFT ................................................ 78 
TIPS FOR REVISING CONTENT AND ............................................... 82 
STRUCTURE .......................................................................................... 82 
TIPS FOR EDITING SENTENCES ....................................................... 86 
IT'S NOT OVER YET ............................................................................ 91 
HOW TO WRITE THE COVER LETTER ............................................ 93 
HOW TO DEAL WITH REVIEWS ....................................................... 97 
SUMMARY .......................................................................................... 104 
AFTERWORD ...................................................................................... 107 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR ....................................................................... 111 
1 
 
WHO SHOULD READ THIS BOOK 
AND WHY? 
 
his book has been written for the PhD student 
who is aiming to write a journal article on her 
research results, but any scientist who has ever 
found writing difficult might find something of use here. 
Knowing how to write papers that other practitioners 
want to read and cite is an essential skill for any scientist, 
but it is rarely taught to students of science and technology. 
Writing is, however, an important part of our jobs. We are 
writers, whether or not we want to be, and the quality of our 
writing can help or hinder our careers. But somehow, we are 
supposed to pick up the necessary writing skills on our own, 
almost as if by osmosis. We are supposed to simply absorb 
them from somewhere. 
 
This book was born from my attempts to fill this gap. It 
started with a series of blog posts at http://jarisaramaki.fi 
that became popular. These posts have been expanded 
upon and rewritten as the chapters of this book. 
 
I chose to focus on PhD students and the specific task of 
writing a journal paper because this is a common struggle. 
PhD students are expected to quickly figure out both how to 
2 
 
do research and how to write it up, and this can be rather  
stressful, Additionally, they rarely get enough help, in  
particular when it comes to writing. We professors tend to  
be too busy, and we often find it difficult to help our  
students because we struggle with writing too. Even those of  
us who are experienced writers may have no system for  
writing—and when there is no system, it is difficult to teach  
others what it is that we do and how do we do it.  
After realising this, I decided to come up with a set of  
guidelines—a system for writing that I could follow with my  
students. The outcome is this book. What you'll learn here  
is a top-down approach that makes writing less taxing  
because it forces you to focus on the right things at the right  
time, one thing at a time.  
Of course, to write a good scientific paper, you have to do  
some good science first. This book only covers the former.  
You cannot and should not compensate for bad science with  
good writing. But if you have done solid science, it deserves  
to be heard about, and it helps if you know how to commu-  
nicate your results clearly and in a compelling way. It also  
helps if you can write quickly, without spending too much  
time being stuck or in fear of the blank page.  
I have written this book mainly for students of science  
and technology (computer science, physics, life sciences,  
and so on) where the output of research typically comes in  
the form of plots, tables, and figures that lead to conclusions  
about how the world works. I wrote with a reader in mind  
who has already obtained research results that are worth  
publishing and who now wants to transform them into a  
well-written paper, a paper that has a streamlined story that  
is communicated through both text and figures. If needs be,  
this story can be condensed into the letter format of the  
PNAS, Nature, or Science variety. But getting your results 
 
 
3 
 
published in the top-tier journals is not the main focus of  
this book: writing well for any journal is.  
If you write well, you do the scientific community a  
service. Students, professors, journal referees, and other  
readers of papers are too often the victims of bad, convo-  
luted writing that steals away their most valuable resource  
—their time. Just consider how many unnecessary hours  
you have spent trying to tease out the hidden meaning from  
research papers that carefully and jealously guard their  
secrets. We all have to deal with limited time: there is never  
enough of it, and wasted hours can never be claimed back.  
Save your readers' time by making your papers easy to read.  
Finally, this book is not about language or grammar. If  
you wish to expand your vocabulary or improve your  
knowledge of grammar, please look elsewhere: there are  
many excellent resources available online and in the nearest  
bookshop (if there still is one). Rather, this book is about  
clarity, structure, excitement, and story. It is also a book  
about thinking because to write clearly is to think clearly. 
 
 
4 
 
WHY DOES WRITING FEEL SO HARD? 
 
"Being a writer is a very peculiar sort of a job: it's always you  
versus a blank sheet of paper (or a blank screen) and quite often  
the blank piece of paper wins. " — Neil Gaiman  
 
very scientist has struggled with writing at some  
point. Most of us struggle with every paper we  
write. Science is hard, and so is writing. Together  
they are harder. If you are a PhD student, you can add in a  
lack of experience as a researcher and as a writer. And when  
you combine all of that with the usual time pressure, it is no  
wonder that the blank document in front of you looks like  
the north face of Mount Everest. It looks impossible. We  
have all been there, staring at that wall.  
 
While no mountaineer would risk climbing Everest  
without a route plan, an inexperienced writer tends to  
neglect the importance of planning. Having no plan, she  
tries to do everything at once. She opens a blank document  
in her editor. She stares at the document—still blank—and  
tries to think of the first word of the first sentence of the first  
paragraph. But because she doesn't yet know what story the 
 
 
E
5 
 
first paragraph (or the whole paper) should tell, she tries to  
figure that out at the same time as choosing the first word.  
She doesn't necessarily even realise that this is happening.  
The first sentence just feels excruciatingly difficult to write.  
It feels like a looming vertical cliff covered in ice, too steep  
to climb. And that's just the first sentence.  
 
At the same time, our writer is still—perhaps unbe-  
knownst to herself—in the process of understanding her  
results and what to make of them. She might even be uncer-  
tain of the point that her paper should make. Everything is  
undecided. Everything is hanging in the air. The cliff is slip-  
pery. It is hard to get a grip on anything.  
 
Under these circumstances, it is not surprising that  
writing feels impossible. It is almost impossible if you don't  
have a plan for how to proceed. No one can solve all these  
problems at the same time, from choosing the right words to  
figuring out what it is that you want to tell the world. Prob-  
lems are best solved one at a time.  
 
Writing becomes much easier if you separate the process  
of thinking from the process of writing. To write clearly is to  
think clearly, and for scientific papers thinking should  
precede writing. Writing becomes much less of a struggle if  
you first think through the right things in the right order.  
 
Think of, say, a software project. At the beginning, the  
software architects and developers consider the big picture:  
what should the software do? What functions and classes  
are needed for it to work? No developer would ever begin by  
writing code for the internal bits and pieces of these func-  
tions and classes without knowing how they interface with  
the rest of the program. It is meaningless to write code for  
functions whose purpose and specifications are unclear.  
 
Similarly, a successful paper-writing project should  
never begin at the level of words and sentences. Rather, it 
 
 
6 
 
should begin at the level of ideas and structure. It is much  
efficient to first consider what the point of the paper is  
and how to best communicate the results in terms of  
ture and Details such as sentences should be left  
for the final stages of writing.  
 
Another way of looking at the problem of writing is  
linearity versus modularity. The fear of the blank page  
arises out of linearity: the feeling that the only way to fill the  
page is from left to right, starting with the first word and  
proceeding towards the last, sentence by sentence, word by  
word, This is not so. Whereas reading is usually linear,  
writing does not have to be. The process of writing should  
be modular: first, sculpt your raw materials into rough  
blocks that together form your story, and then start working  
on the blocks, filling in more and more details until entire  
sentences begin to appear towards the end of this process.  
 
In this book, you will learn an approach wherein the  
writing process is divided into a series of hierarchical tasks.  
This makes it easier and less painful to get from a pile of  
results to a polished research paper.  
 
This top-down approach begins by identifying the key  
point of the paper and then involves structuring the mate-  
rial that supports this point into a storyline. That's right:  
scientific papers are stories. They are not just containers of  
information! This storyline is then condensed into the  
abstract of the paper—my advice is to always write the  
abstract first, not last. This is unconventional, but it works.  
Writing the abstract first serves as an acid test: if you cannot  
do it, your storyline is not ready. But if you can, congratula-  
tions, because now you know the point of your paper and  
have a story to tell.  
 
After finishing the first draft of the abstract, there are  
many steps to be taken before writing complete sentences 
 
 
7 
 
again. These include planning the order of presentation and  
figures and mapping the story into paragraphs so that the  
topic and point of each paragraph is decided in advance.  
Then, the paragraph contents are expanded into rough  
sketches, and finally these sketches are transformed into  
whole sentences. At this point, there is no fear of the blank  
page because there are no blank pages. For each section and  
for each paragraph, there is a map and a route plan, and the  
only decision that you need to make is how to best trans-  
form that plan into a series of words.  
 
There is an additional bonus for writers who have a  
good plan: it becomes possible to make progress whenever  
there is a gap in the schedule. When writing without a plan,  
it is very difficult to come up with much useful text if you  
unexpectedly get 15 minutes of spare time because your  
commuter train is delayed. If you have no plan, it takes all of  
those 15 minutes just to remember where the paper was  
supposed to be going. But when writing with a plan, you can  
just have a look at your notes and immediately start turning  
those notes into sentences. This way, you become much  
more productive.  
 
When you have transformed your outline into text, the  
outcome of this top-down approach is a finished draft of the  
manuscript that already resembles the polished end prod-  
uct. But it shouldn't be too polished. It is usually much  
faster to write a quick-and-dirty first draft and then edit it  
several times than it is to attempt flawless sentences from  
the outset. Editing is much faster than writing and—at least  
for me—much less painful.  
 
So, Jet's get started! I hope you now have a number of  
results at hand and at least a vague idea of their meaning. It  
is time to figure out together what it is that you want to tell  
the world! 
 
 
8 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
PART I 
STORY 
 
 
10 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
1  
HOW TO CHOOSE THE KEY POINT OF  
YOUR PAPER  
 
"Most of the fundamental ideas of science are essentially simple,  
and may, as a rule, be expressed in a language comprehensible  
to everyone." — Albert Einstein  
 
et's begin our top-down approach to writing your  
paper at the very top. The first choice that you  
have to make is also the most important one: what  
is your paper about? What is its key point? What is its  
conclusion? Your answers lay the foundation for the rest of  
the paper.  
 
Well-written papers are often about a single thing. Their  
key points are concise, and this makes them easier to read  
and understand. So when thinking about the point that you  
want to make, try to state it in one or two sentences. If you  
think that a few sentences is too little, consider the follow-  
ing: the Earth rotates around the Sun and not vice versa.  
Space-time is curved by mass. The salt of deoxyribose  
nucleic acid has a structure with two helical chains,  
suggesting a possible copying mechanism for genetic mater-  
ial. And so on. 
 
 
L
12 
 
 
The above sentences illustrate that there is often a lot of  
depth behind results that do not require too many words to  
describe. Choosing a key point that can be compressed into  
a few sentences does not mean that your paper has to be  
simplistic or overly commercial.  
 
If you can condense your key point into a package that  
can be easily communicated, it is likely that it will eventu-  
ally reach its intended target—the reader. This is not limited  
to primary transmission, whereby a potentially interested  
reader comes across your abstract and decides to read on.  
Secondary transmission is important too: turning the inter-  
ested reader into someone who is excited enough to share  
your paper with her colleagues or to tweet about it. In both  
cases, it helps if your message is compact and focused.  
Communication is difficult and communication channels  
are noisy, so make it easy for your message to reach its audi-  
ence in one piece.  
 
Making a clear point is important, but what should this  
point be? If you have a notebook full of results, how do you  
select one to write about? This choice can be surprisingly  
difficult. Much of research is exploration, stumbling along a  
path that is hidden from sight. While this exploration can  
reveal many things, their meaning or importance is not  
always obvious. Often, the reality is that you have worked  
hard and produced some solid results, but nothing immedi-  
ately stands out,  
 
Results that look big and important at first sight are rare,  
Sometimes, however, the importance of a result only  
becomes apparent a long time after it has been published. It  
also helps to remember that all major breakthroughs build  
on smaller breakthroughs; they cannot and do not happen  
in isolation. The final piece of a puzzle can only be placed  
when the other pieces are already there, and some papers  
 
 
13 
 
have to describe those other pieces. As such, not every paper  
can be amazingly important, and not every paper can be  
about the final piece. However, every paper can be focused,  
easy to understand, and come with a clear message.  
 
If you have a number of plots, tables, and results at hand  
and are unsure as to which one to write about, try going  
through the results one by one. Imagine how you would  
describe a result to a colleague. How would it help others  
working in your field? Does it solve a problem that others  
are interested in? Does it open doors to new problems? Do  
you understand the result, or does it make you go "that's  
odd" (which is often a good sign)?  
 
Try to explain the significance of each candidate result  
with full sentences, either by playing out imaginary conver-  
sations in your head or by talking to your colleagues or your  
supervisor. If you cannot find anything to say about a result,  
you might want to put it aside and move on to the next.  
 
In my research group, we often do this exercise jointly  
with everyone involved in the paper-to-be. We reserve a few  
hours of time and go through the available results and plots  
on a meeting-room video screen or on the whiteboard. We  
discuss the meaning, interpretation, and importance of each  
result and consider whether it could lead to some new  
research questions. On many occasions, not understanding  
a result has led us to ask the really interesting questions.  
Therefore, it pays to be honest; if you don't get it, say so. If  
there is something odd in a plot, call it out. If you are not  
convinced by the explanations of others, say it. You might  
have spotted something that no one else gets either, and that  
could lead somewhere important.  
 
But what makes a result great and exciting? While there  
are no general rules applicable to all fields of science, here  
are some aspects worth considering. 
 
 
14 
 
 
First, as discussed above, a good result is often one that  
is compact and focused enough to be compressed into  
 
Second, if a result feels surprising and unexpected  
you see it for the first time, it deserves a closer look.  
result makes you go "that's funny", it probably contains a  
story that is worth telling. An unexpected result can even be  
turned into an exciting stow by making a point out of  
understanding have observed an unexpected some.  
thing that we cannot explain". If the result is surprising  
enough, others will attempt to explain it for you.  
 
Third, if your result solves a known, open problem, or if  
it can be used as a building block for a future solution, it is  
valuable to others in your field.  
 
Fourth, if your result opens new problems, it is even  
more valuable—your fellow scientists will be happy to  
attack those problems and cite you while they are at it.  
Being a scientist is not about answers but about questions. A  
scientist without questions is an unhappy scientist—give  
others good questions and they will love you for it!  
 
Fifth and finally, remember that beauty and elegance  
matter. Aesthetics are important, especially in the mathe-  
matical sciences—mathematical elegance is one of those  
things that you just know when you see it.  
 
If no clear winners emerge after this exercise, then there  
are three alternatives.  
 
First, should there be strong enough candidates among  
your results, you can always just pick the most promising  
one as the central result of your paper and see what  
happens if you go ahead. If after a while you find yourself at  
a dead end, then by all means do reconsider.  
 
The second alternative is that you are simply ready  
to write the paper yet, and you need to do research 
 
 
15 
 
discover something worthwhile. This is perfectly OK, and it  
happens often—it is part of the process. In such cases, you  
just have to do a bit more work before you can return to  
writing.  
 
The third, less likely option is that you have the mate-  
rials for an exploratory paper in your hands—a paper that  
does not have a central result. An exploratory paper can be  
compared to a map of unknown terrain: there are lots of  
features that may be interesting, but no feature stands out.  
There may be hidden treasure, but finding it would require  
deeper exploration of some part of the map. It is not easy to  
write a good exploratory paper, but it can be done if neces-  
sary, especially as a follow-up to a more story-oriented  
paper.  
 
If you are now lucky enough to have an exciting result  
that you think the world should know about, read on. In the  
next chapters, we will talk about how to put your result on a  
pedestal. 
 
 
16 
 
2 
HOW TO CHOOSE THE SUPPORTING 
RESULTS 
 
"Truth is ever to be found in simplicity, and not in the  
multiplicity and confusion of things." — Isaac Newton  
 
nce you have decided on the key point of your  
paper, the next step is to choose what else goes  
in. This choice should be made with care. Now  
that you have a point to make, everything else should  
support this point. The best papers are often minimalistic; 
they drive their point home with essential ingredients only.  
Papers that contain lots of unrelated results are difficult to  
comprehend because they leave the reader wondering where  
to focus her attention. Clutter reduces clarity. Keep the mate-  
rial that makes your paper better and discard everything else.  
 
The process of going through your results and deciding  
what to keep resembles the editing of a Hollywood movie.  
After the movie has been shot, the director and the editor  
start working with an abundance of raw materials that are  
to be sculpted into the final product—the theatrical cut. The  
goal is to assemble the film from the shots and scenes that 
 
 
O 
17 
 
best support the storyline while cutting out non-essential  
footage.  
 
Your paper is your theatrical cut. Only use what it needs,  
and leave out the rest.  
 
It may feel painful to discard some of your results—you  
spent a WEEK making that plot! But, believe me, it is for the  
best. If you want your paper to make an impact, others will  
have to read it and understand it first, and they will be  
greatly hindered if there is too much irrelevant information  
to absorb.  
 
Perhaps it is because of the pain of discarding perfectly-  
good-yet-unimportant results that most journals nowadays  
allow for an extended director's cut in the shape of a Supple-  
mentary Information document with an unlimited page  
count. Authors can dump all those raw materials that didn't  
make the theatrical release into the supplement where they  
can be safely forgotten by the rest of the world (but at least  
the week spent making that plot feels like it meant  
something).  
 
Let us see how far we can push the film industry anal-  
ogy. A typical film script begins with the setup phase where  
the characters and the setting are introduced. Then it  
proceeds into the confrontation where the characters are  
put in trouble, and finally there is the resolution of the story  
(an epic fight in space followed by an exploding Death Star  
or something). This may be followed by a brief epilogue  
(with or without frolicking ewoks).  
 
If we divide our results into these four plot phases, the  
setup category contains the results and figures that are  
required for the reader to make sense of your context, your  
experiment, and/or your data and its credibility (basic  
statistics and so on). It also contains schematic diagrams 
 
 
18 
 
that visually explain the concepts your paper works with  
always include a schematic diagram or two.  
 
The confrontation category contains results that take the  
reader to the main result. These results bring the story  
closer to your final revelation; they build up excitement and  
lead the storyline toward its climax. You can build tension,  
for example, by showing results that are surprising and then  
revealing their explanation as the resolution of your story-  
line. You can also build up excitement by presenting  
competing hypotheses or models and asking which of them  
match your data.  
 
The resolution category should contain only your key  
result, illustrated by no more than one or two plots or  
figures.  
 
The last category of results—the epilogue—shows what  
follows after the resolution. The epilogue plot phase of a  
scientific paper is more important than the last couple of  
minutes of a blockbuster film. These results are presented  
after the main result has been introduced and serve the  
purpose of highlighting its significance. One key technique  
is to think of some application or consequence of the main  
result and to illustrate this with a figure or two.  
 
If you look at some research papers published in the  
glossy magazines (Nature, Science, and so forth), you'll see  
that many authors apply this technique. Out of the four or  
so figures in those letter-format papers, the first is about  
setup and confrontation, the second is the key result (the  
resolution), and the rest are there to show why the key result  
matters or what it means (epilogue). In the kinds of journals  
where us mere mortals are published, there may be more  
figures per category, but the important thing is to set clear  
roles for your results and figures and use them accordingly  
when telling your story. 
 
 
19 
 
 
Armed with the above plot structure and the four cate-  
gories, it should be easier for you to choose the results to  
include in your paper. Does a result play a clear role in one  
of the four plot phases—setup, confrontation, resolution,  
epilogue? Or, looking at it the other way around, what  
results should you include in, for example, the confronta-  
tion part to make it as strong as possible?  
 
To summarise, at the end of this step you should have  
your key result at hand, together with three sets of auxiliary  
results: one that is essential for context (setup), one that  
builds up excitement and leads to the main result (con-  
frontation), and one that highlights the importance of that  
key result (epilogue). These results, together with their  
order of presentation, determine much of your storyline.  
 
Next, we will develop a super-compressed version of that  
storyline: the abstract of your paper. 
 
 
20 
 
3 
HOW TO WRITE THE ABSTRACT  
 
"Clear thinking becomes clear writing: one can't exist without  
the other. " — William Zinsser, On Writing Well  
 
e will now take your key result and your  
auxiliary results and develop the storyline  
further. The best way to do this is to take the  
bull by the horns and write the abstract of the paper.  
It takes some courage to write the abstract this early,  
before any other part of the paper has been written, but it is  
worth it: the earlier you think through your storyline and  
put it into words, the better. The abstract is the storyline of  
the paper in miniature form. It determines the rest. Once  
you have composed your abstract, you have decided what  
story you want to tell. This makes the paper much easier to  
write and results in a more focused outcome; you can think  
of the rest of the paper as an extended version of the  
abstract.  
 
The time you spend writing the abstract will pay off  
later. I've mulled over abstracts for several days, writing and 
 
 
W 
21 
 
rewriting. As well as determining your story, the abstract is  
critical for making your paper catchy. It is also the first thing  
that a potential reader sees.  
 
If the abstract is badly written, unfocused, or missing  
essential elements, the reader cannot know why you have  
done the things that you have done or what your results  
mean. A messy abstract will not compel the reader to read  
the rest of the paper. A fellow scientist who randomly comes  
across your abstract will quickly move on if she cannot see  
what your point is or why your point is important.  
 
A badly written, confused abstract is also an easy way of  
getting rejected quickly and harshly. The abstract makes the  
initial impression. It is the first part of your paper that the  
journal editor and the referees encounter—and it might be  
the last.  
 
One common mistake is to view the abstract as a linear  
string of equally important pieces of information, whose  
only aim is to let the reader know what the author has done.  
An abstract written this way reads like a boring list of  
results: "We did X, and the result was Y. Then we did Z  
and..." Two important things are missing from such an  
abstract: context and excitement! Another very common  
mistake, especially among students writing their first  
papers, is to end the abstract abruptly after the results have  
been described. The reader is then left alone to figure out  
why these results matter.  
 
So how is a great abstract structured? Is there a winning  
formula?  
 
Yes, there is. By now you ought to have guessed already:  
great abstracts follow the tried-and-tested movie script  
structure of setup, confrontation, resolution, and epilogue.  
And I didn't make this structure up myself, as you will soon 
 
 
22 
 
see. In fact, this exact formula is demanded by some of the  
top journals, because it works.  
 
The task of the first few sentences of the abstract is to  
provide context and excitement. You can only follow the 
story if you understand the setting and know the characters  
(context), and you will only feel invested in the story if you 
care about the characters (excitement). The same applies to  
any research paper and its abstract: your reader has to  
understand the context and care enough about your  
research problem to read on and find out how the problem  
was solved.  
 
After the setup phase, the script continues to the  
confrontation phase where there is trouble lurking, and  
where we encounter an issue that the characters have to  
solve. In the abstract, this section is the concise and focused  
description of the specific research problem that you have  
solved. It is immediately followed by the resolution, the  
high point of excitement in the story: your key result and the  
main conclusion of the paper.  
 
The rest of the abstract should map to a (prolonged)  
epilogue of a film script. The last few sentences should illus-  
trate how your results have changed the world, first within  
your field and then more broadly.  
 
An abstract that follows this storyline resembles an  
hourglass: it starts by broadly introducing the setting in the  
setup phase. Then it narrows down to a specific research  
problem (confrontation) and its solution (resolution). Then  
the hourglass widens again as the abstract returns to the  
broader picture (epilogue).  
 
It is not a coincidence that this is exactly how every  
Nature abstract reads.  
 
The script that every Nature abstract has to follow,  
sentence by sentence, begins with a few lines on the general 
 
 
23 
 
context and on the broader topic. These sentences should  
be comprehensible to "a scientist in any discipline", and  
they should describe the general interest in the topic. Then,  
the abstract narrows down to more specific context (again a  
few sentences) that can be slightly more exclusive and  
aimed at "scientists in related disciplines". This ends the  
setup phase. Next, the abstract funnels to its narrowest  
point, the confrontation: the exact research question that  
the paper addresses, stated in a single sentence, Then comes  
the resolution: the key result, again described in a single  
sentence. Finally, the abstract's scope becomes broader  
again as it enters the epilogue phase, first addressing the  
implications of the result to the paper's field of science and  
then discussing the general impact beyond that particular  
field, both in one or two sentences.  
 
Even if you are not writing a Nature paper (and you  
probably aren't), the above provides a good recipe for an  
abstract. I write every single abstract I produce this way. If  
you follow the hourglass structure, your abstract will be  
focused and contain all the essential elements of a good  
scientific storyline. The broad beginning and end of the  
abstract force you to think about why you do what you do,  
which is never a bad thing, and having to concisely express  
the research problem and its solution makes you distill what  
you have done down to its essence.  
 
Depending on your field and the chosen journal, the  
breadth of the top and the bottom of the hourglass may  
need to be adjusted. Rather than seeking to solve mankind's  
most pressing problems, the context of your results may  
simply be your particular field of science, or its subfield. For  
a specialist journal, you don't need to begin your abstract  
with a sentence on the importance of your field—the  
readers already know it. But it still it pays to consider the 
 
 
24 
 
broadest context you can honestly think of. Don't exagger- 
ate, but try to take a broader perspective. Why does your 
research question matter? Why are your results important?  
The answers to these questions should become the first and  
last sentences of your abstract. 
 
 
25 
 
4 
HOW TO CHOOSE THE TITLE 
 
"Any word you have to hunt for in a thesaurus is the wrong  
word, There are no exceptions to this rule." — Stephen King  
 
fter you have written your abstract, the next task  
is to consider the title of your paper. If the  
abstract is a compressed version of your storyline,  
the title of your paper is even more so. Titles are hard—it is  
often surprisingly difficult to come up with a short, informa-  
tive, and catchy title. For me, this has at times felt like the  
hardest part of writing a paper.  
 
The title of the paper serves a dual purpose: it delivers  
information by telling readers what your paper is about, and  
it serves as a marketing tool that makes others want to read  
your paper. Unfortunately, unlike the abstract, there is no  
general-purpose formula to follow when thinking of a title.  
There are, however, some points that you should consider.  
 
The title has to be in perfect sync with the abstract—  
they have to tell the same story. Make sure that your title  
and abstract use the same words and concepts. Also make 
 
 
A 
26 
 
sure that everything that is mentioned in the title is 
discussed in the abstract. 
 
Use words that in your target audience can 
understand. Avoid subfield-specific jargon. Simply does it!  
The paper's title should only contain concepts that can be  
understood on their own, without any explanation. While  
there is some room in the abstract for explaining one or two  
important concepts in brief, there is no such luxury in the  
title: the reader should already be familiar with every word  
used in it. 
 
The title should be focused and clear. If it is possible to  
give away the main result in the title, do so. Avoid vague  
titles, such as "Investigating Problem X with Method Y".  
Instead, go for something more concrete: "Investigating  
Problem X with Method Y Reveals Z."  
 
A small request: please never, ever use a title of the  
"Towards Understanding Problem X" variety. Just don't do it.  
Pretty please. If your research is worth publishing, you have  
arrived somewhere. Just be confident and tell the reader  
where this is, instead of telling them where you would  
rather have gone! It is OK to say something about the bigger  
picture in the title, as long as your key point plays a leading  
role. But to keep your title concise, it may be better to  
describe long-term goals elsewhere in the paper.  
 
It helps if the title is catchy as well as informative. But do  
not exaggerate—consider how your title will look 10 years  
from now. Will it stand the test of time? If the title is too  
gimmicky or contains a joke that becomes stale after you've  
heard it a few times, it won't. You should also avoid jargon  
and buzzwords that may go out of fashion before the paper  
gets published.  
 
Consider search engines and online search. Your paper  
needs to be found if it is to be read, so the title should 
 
 
27 
 
contain the right keywords or search terms. As a network  
scientist, I almost always include the word "network" in my  
paper titles, even if this makes the title longer or if other  
network scientists would understand the title perfectly well  
without networks being explicitly mentioned. Without the  
word "network", they would not necessarily find my paper  
when they hunt online for new reading material.  
 
Keep your title short. Research has shown that shorter  
titles attract more citations—see Letchford et al., R. Soc.  
Open Sci. 2(8):150266 (2015). This should not come as a big  
surprise: long and cluttered titles are not as contagious as  
simple, focused ones. If the title is convoluted and hard to  
grasp, then the paper probably is too.  
 
Sometimes there are field-specific conventions that you  
should be familiar with. In some biomedical fields, for  
example, the paper's title often expresses just the key result  
—"Transcription Factor X is Involved in Process Y "—and the  
titles can be fairly long. In some areas of physics and  
computer science, shorter and less informative titles are the  
norm. Have a look at other papers in your field, and try to  
imitate their best titles.  
 
If you get stuck at this point and find it hard to decide on  
the title, it might be easier to initially lower your bar a bit.  
Just come up with some candidate titles that do not have to  
be perfect. Then ask your colleagues—your fellow PhD  
students, your supervisor, anyone—to have a look at the list  
and to pick the most promising candidates for refinement  
and final polishing. 
 
 
28 
 
 
 
29 
 
PART II 
OUTLINE 
 
 
30 
 
 
 
31 
 
5 
THE POWER OF OUTLINING  
 
"Perdition awaits at the end of a road constructed entirely from  
good intentions, the devil emerges from the details and hell  
abides in the small print." — Iain M. Banks, Transition  
 
ongratulations! If you have made it this far, you  
already have a vision of the story that you want to  
tell with your paper, and the essence of this vision  
is encapsulated in its abstract and title. You have your ingre-  
dients and raw materials at hand; you know your key result  
and your main conclusion. The rest of your results are  
organised into categories according to their role in the story:  
setup, confrontation, resolution, and epilogue. The basic  
elements are all there. And if everything is not yet crystal  
clear, please don't worry; your plan doesn't have to be  
perfect, as long as there is a plan.  
 
The next step is to take what you have and start fleshing  
out the storyline by adding details. Because we follow a top-  
down approach, we will add these details layer by layer. The  
first layer is the outline of the paper that provides a map, a  
blueprint, and a skeleton for more layers to come. 
 
 
C 
32 
 
 
The first task when outlining is to choose how to divide  
your paper into sections. Depending on your target journal,  
you may need to follow strict guidelines, such as the  
commonly used Introduction—Methods—Results—Discussion  
structure, or come up with a structure of your own. It pays  
to have some idea of what goes where, even for short letter-  
format papers that may or may not have section headings.  
Usually, this is not difficult: all papers begin with an intro-  
duction and end with a discussion, even if those elements  
span just a few paragraphs. The results are sandwiched  
somewhere in between. Methods may be explained before  
the results or after the discussion as an appendix of sorts  
(like in Nature and other glossy magazines).  
 
Choosing the order of presentation within each section  
can feel more difficult, especially for the beginner. Luckily,  
there are some standard templates and structures you can  
follow that just work. In the coming chapters, I will discuss  
each of the usual sections in detail, from Introduction to  
Methods and from Results to Discussion, providing outlines  
for typical structures or ways of coming up with your own  
structure. For the Introduction, I will suggest a paragraph-  
level template that you can follow. For Results, a solid, tried-  
and-tested approach is to begin with the figures and their  
order of appearance, so we will discuss figures and their  
captions at length. For both Methods and Discussion, I will  
give some advice on what should generally be included and  
how to choose the order of presentation.  
 
After developing a broad outline for each section—a  
plan of what should go in and in what order—the aim is to  
"quantise" the section contents into paragraphs. Paragraphs  
are the basic units of writing that form your text. The output  
of the outlining phase should be a paragraph-level outline  
of your paper, or at least of its most important parts. 
 
 
33 
 
 
The paragraph-level outline should, at the very least,  
contain the topics of each paragraph and the points that  
those paragraphs should make. It can also include notes,  
bulleted lists, sketches of arguments, and perhaps some  
references and citations. You might even want to sketch a  
sentence or two, but this can be done later as well—there is  
no need to write words yet.  
 
The purpose of all this outlining is to help you to think  
more clearly. Outlining forces you to consider the big  
picture before spending time on details and makes it easier  
for you to follow your storyline. The paragraph-level outline  
should be an expanded version of the story that the abstract  
of the paper tells. Were you to write without a plan, you  
might find yourself in a situation where you simply end up  
somewhere, wondering where to insert the important points  
you originally had mind but that got lost along the way.  
 
You don't need to be a perfectionist when it comes to the  
outline, and you don't need to decide every detail of every  
paragraph in advance. For some sections, outlining at the  
paragraph level might feel like overkill, and in these cases,  
you can simply come up with a sketch of what should go  
into the section.  
 
Outlining the paper often results in the discovery of new  
connections and arguments, or you might find holes in your  
thinking that you need to fill before continuing. If so, great,  
do it—put your trust in the writing process and let it guide  
you. You might also find that outlining your paper throws  
up difficult decisions, but don't spend too much time  
dwelling on details: just skip that bit, and see if the process  
of writing solves your problem later.  
 
As well as forcing you to look at the big picture first,  
outlining helps you to be more productive. When writing  
without an outline, it takes a lot of time to get started, and 
 
 
34 
 
you have to read what you have already written just to  
remember what you were planning to say next. This cannot  
be done in a few minutes. Even half an hour might not be  
sufficient if the writing process has been interrupted for, say,  
a week or two. Therefore, if there is an unexpected gap in  
your schedule, it is hard to use this windfall of time for  
writing.  
 
But if you have an outline, a plan, you can start writing  
easily and quickly at any time. With a paragraph-level  
outline, almost any available slot of time can be used for  
writing. Pick one of your paragraphs, look at your notes, and  
just write a sentence or two. Working in this way will help  
you to complete the first draft sooner than you'd think. 
 
 
35 
 
6 
HOW TO WRITE THE INTRODUCTION,  
PART I: STRUCTURE  
 
"You could find out most things, if you knew the right questions  
to ask. Even if you didn't, you could still find out a lot ." — Iain  
M. Banks, The Player of Games  
 
uch like the abstract, the introduction should  
be structured so that its scope follows an hour-  
glass shape, from broad to narrow and then  
back to broad. But in contrast to the abstract, the hourglass  
of the introduction should be top-heavy, emphasising the  
context—the top of the hourglass—more than the resolu-  
tion of the story.  
 
Begin your introduction with a paragraph that sets up  
the broad context. This paragraph is important: it is the part  
of your paper that is most likely to be read (after the abstract  
of course). To get your reader curious enough to read on, the  
first paragraph should broadly point out a gap in knowledge  
that the paper aims to address.  
 
After the broad context has been laid out, the scope of  
the introduction should become narrower. The next one to  
two paragraphs should bring the story to the confrontation 
 
 
M
36 
 
phase: they should frame and motivate the research ques-  
tion of the paper. They should also cite relevant literature to  
provide context and to connect the paper to the streams of  
thought that together form your field of science.  
 
Finally, after no more than a few paragraphs, the exact  
research question addressed by the paper should be explic-  
itly and clearly stated. The sentence that reveals this ques-  
tion is the narrowest point of the top-heavy hourglass.  
 
What happens next depends on the format of  
your paper.  
 
For short papers and the letter format, the introduction  
has to be wrapped up rather quickly. A common approach is  
to summarise the main finding and explain how it was  
obtained in one or two paragraphs before moving on to the  
next section (Methods or Results).  
 
For longer papers, it is common practice to provide a  
literature review addressing the state of the art. Rather than  
encompassing your whole field, this review just needs to  
provide an account of what others have done in the general  
vicinity of your research question. The literature review can  
be followed by a condensed account of your approach to the  
problem—your experiments, methods, or theoretical points  
of view—before you briefly present your main findings.  
Note, however, that there are field-specific "old-school"  
traditions of scientific writing where the results are not  
discussed in the introduction at all. Finally, the introduction  
of a long paper often ends with a map of the paper that gives  
an outline of what is to come: "In Section Il, we will  
discuss..." and so on.  
 
You'll learn a lot about how to approach your introduc-  
tion if you pick some of your favourite papers and analyse  
their introductions, taking the time to understand the role  
of each paragraph. You will see that they almost always 
 
 
37 
 
follow variations of the above arc. It is even possible to cate-  
gorise papers by their type of introduction—how many  
paragraphs are there before the key problem is stated? One,  
two, or three? I've seen PNAS papers where the authors  
move from the broad context to the exact research question  
in one long paragraph, but this is an exception rather than  
the norm, and I would tend to split such long paragraphs. In  
any case, there is something of a formula, whose exact  
details depend on the format and length of the paper and  
the stylistic choices of the writer. The paper's topic and its  
familiarity to the readers of the journal also play a role:  
research questions that are obviously familiar to the  
intended audience do not require a lot of motivation, but  
new points of view or unexpected questions often do. 
 
 
38 
 
7 
HOW TO WRITE THE INTRODUCTION,  
PART II: A FOUR-PARAGRAPH TEMPLATE  
 
"The scientist is not a person who gives the right answers, he's  
one who asks the right questions." — Claude Lévi-Strauss  
 
ollowing a good formula makes writing easier, so  
let's use the four plot phases (setup, confrontation,  
resolution, epilogue) as a starting point for building  
a template. I will now introduce you to a paragraph-level  
template that I often use when writing the Introduction.  
 
This template is well suited to letters and short papers. It  
proceeds to the exact research question and to the main  
conclusion of the paper rather quickly—the whole intro-  
duction takes just four paragraphs. The first two paragraphs  
provide context and lead to the research question, and the  
last two discuss how the problem was solved and what the  
main conclusion of the paper is. The narrowest point of the  
hourglass is between these two blocks, immediately after  
the second paragraph.  
 
It shouldn't be too difficult to expand this template for  
longer papers—just use more than one paragraph for each  
point, and add an outline of the paper at the end if you wish. 
 
 
F
39 
 
It is also perfectly possible to squeeze this template into two  
paragraphs: just merge the first two and the last two.  
 
So, let's get going. The first paragraph provides context  
and background for your research by introducing the  
problem area and the knowledge gap that has led you to ask  
your research question. After the first paragraph, your  
reader should have a pretty good idea of what the paper is  
broadly speaking about—not necessarily the exact details  
but the broader topic.  
 
Because this is the opening paragraph that leads the  
reader into your story, the first couple of sentences are  
crucially important. They not only determine what the first  
paragraph is about, but they also set the expectations for the  
whole paper. They are the beginning of the so-called "lede"  
(more on that in the next section) that draws the reader into  
your story. It is tempting to use the all-too-common opening  
in which you begin by explaining that your research topic  
has become important in recent years because of this and  
that I've done this far too often, and I have promised myself  
that I will avoid it in the future. There are so many more  
exciting ways to begin your story! Say something powerful.  
Move directly to where the gaps in knowledge are.  
 
After a strong beginning, you can continue the para-  
graph by giving a short overview of the state of the art,  
explaining what has already been discovered. The aim here  
is not, however, to provide an account of everything in the  
field—that's what review papers are for. Your overview  
should cite papers that provide context for your research  
problem and that connect your work to the broader  
progress of your field, By all means cite your own work too,  
if it is relevant to the problem—just don't overdo it.  
 
This short literature survey of what is already known  
can fill the rest of the first paragraph. You can describe past 
 
 
40 
 
research in chronological or topical order; what often works  
best is a funnel structure where you move closer and closer  
to your actual problem with every sentence.  
 
You can make your first paragraph stronger by ending it  
with some contrast, for example, a sentence like "despite all  
this, we do not yet fully understand X" or "however, the role  
of Y remains an open question". The subject that provides  
contrast —the thing that is not yet understood—doesn't  
have to be the exact research question that your paper deals  
with. It could be something bigger, providing broader moti-  
vation for your question.  
 
Equally, it is perfectly OK to structure the first paragraph  
so that each sentence simply adds detail and depth to the  
point made by the first sentence. The first paragraph does  
not have to end with a cliffhanger.  
 
The second paragraph switches to a close-up point of view  
and zooms in on your particular research problem. Here,  
the plot advances from the setup phase to the confrontation.  
The second paragraph focuses on illustrating the gap in  
knowledge that has motivated your study. Your main aim is  
to get to your specific research question, which will be  
stated at the end of this paragraph.  
 
Structurally, this paragraph forms a funnel from the  
broader motivation to the exact question.  
 
Here are some devices to help you begin this paragraph.  
If the first paragraph concludes by contrasting knowledge  
with the lack of knowledge, your second paragraph can  
begin by addressing this contrast. For example, if at the end  
of the first paragraph you say that X is an open question,  
you can begin the second paragraph by explaining why this  
question is important, why hasn't it been solved, or what  
approaches might be feasible for solving it. If the first para-  
graph doesn't end with a question or a contrasting state- 
 
 
41 
 
ment, you can launch the second paragraph with "However,  
..." and add your contrast here. Your first few sentences  
should leave the reader aware of a question, a gap in knowl-  
edge, an issue to be solved.  
 
Use the rest of the second paragraph to move from this  
broad issue to your specific research question, and tell the  
reader why answering that specific question will be worth-  
while. If others have tried to tackle the question before you,  
tell the reader how they approached the problem, what they  
might have missed, and how your point of view relates to  
this existing body of knowledge. If you have come up with a  
unique question, tell the reader what is to be gained by  
solving it. Use carefully chosen citations to emphasise what  
is not known over what is known.  
 
At the end of this paragraph, you should clearly and  
explicitly state the research question that your paper  
addresses.  
 
At the beginning of the third paragraph, the point of view  
moves from what others have done to what you have done.  
The third paragraph describes how you approached the  
research question. In terms of plot, this paragraph advances  
from the confrontation towards the resolution. Now there is  
action, and things finally start happening. The narrowest  
point of the hourglass has just been passed (it is located  
precisely between paragraphs two and three).  
 
The first sentence of the third paragraph should  
describe in concrete terms what you have done to answer  
the research question. For example: "To this end, we have  
carried out an experiment where..." or "In this paper, we  
investigate the relationship between X and Y with the  
help of..."  
 
The rest of the third paragraph should shed more light  
on your approach. If you have designed and carried out an 
 
 
42 
 
experiment to answer the research question that was made  
explicit in the second paragraph, describe this experiment  
here. If you have figured out a new theoretical approach to  
the problem, explain this approach. If you have collected  
and studied tons of data with the help of some new proce-  
dure, tell your reader about the data and the procedure.  
 
If required—and if there is space—the third paragraph  
can be long; it can even be split into several paragraphs. But  
stick to the point: you are writing a paragraph for the Intro-  
duction, not for the Methods section. There will be time to  
fill in the details later.  
 
Finally, the fourth paragraph of the template moves from  
your approach to your findings. It reveals the outcome of  
your work and briefly summarises your results. This para-  
graph should explain how you have answered the question  
that you stated earlier by sharing the new pieces of informa-  
tion that your work has revealed. It should also tell how the  
world has changed because of this new information: there is  
increased understanding, there are new ways of doing  
things, there are more dots to connect.  
 
As the fourth paragraph is about the resolution of the  
story, it is something of a spoiler. But don't worry—everyone  
knows the ending already if they have read the abstract.  
I often keep this paragraph fairly short for maximum  
effect. It summarises the key findings so that a busy reader  
can stop here, perhaps to return to the details later, but it  
leaves enough unsaid to whet the reader's appetite. Also, the  
brevity of the paragraph provides a nice contrast with the  
lengthy third paragraph; the shortness of the paragraph  
gives the impression of weight and importance. 
 
 
43 
 
8 
HOW TO WRITE THE INTRODUCTION,  
PART III: THE LEDE  
 
"Call me Ishmael. Some years ago—never mind how long  
precisely—having little or no money in my purse, and nothing  
particular to interest me on shore, I thought I would sail about  
a little and see the watery part of the world ." — Herman  
Melville, Moby Dick  
 
"In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit." — J.R.R.  
Tolkien, The Hobbit  
 
he first sentence of the first paragraph of any  
written piece of text is crucially important, as all  
writers of fiction know. Make it as strong as  
you can,  
 
First impressions matter. The subset of potential readers  
who, having been lured in by the abstract, decide to have a  
closer look will then encounter the first sentence of the  
introduction. For them, this is another decision point: to  
read on or to stop.  
 
The second-most important sentence is the second one, 
 
 
T
44 
 
and the third-most important sentence is the third one, and  
so on. A reader can choose to stop reading at any point, after  
any sentence. This means that the first sentence will be the  
most-read sentence of your paper. Your second sentence will  
be read by fewer readers than the first, and your third  
sentence will be read by fewer readers still, and so on (if we  
assume that readers do in fact begin at the beginning  
instead of jumping in at random points). You will lose  
readers sentence by sentence, whatever you do. This cannot  
be avoided.  
 
The stronger the sentences, however, the lower the rate  
of attrition and the higher the chance that some readers will  
make it through to the last one. If you retain your readers'  
curiosity, they are more likely to stick around. Create  
contrast and tension for excitement. Use cliffhanger  
endings: pose a question, and then wait until the next  
sentence to answer it.  
 
Journalists use the term lede for the first few sentences of  
a news story—presumably spelled that way rather than  
"lead" for historical reasons that involve mechanical type-  
setting.  
 
The lede is the lead portion of a news story. It gives the  
reader the gist of the story and entices them to read the  
rest. While the lede should contain the essence of the  
story, it should not explain everything—it should raise  
questions so that the paragraphs that follow can satisfy the  
curiosity of the reader. Journalists even have their stan-  
dard schemas for ledes, and one of the most commonly  
used is the inverted pyramid lede that compresses the  
who-what-where-when-why-how of a story into a single  
sentence or two. The journalist then adds depth and detail  
in the sentences that follow, in decreasing order of  
importance. 
45 
 
  
Let's have a look at some great openings and powerful  
first sentences.  
 
The first sentence of Battiston et al., PNAS 113, 10031  
(2016), reads:  
 
"Several years after the beginning of the so-called Great  
Recession, regulators warn that we still do not have a satis-  
factory framework to deal with too-big-to-fail institutions   
and with systemic events of distress in the financial system."  
 
This is a powerful beginning that immediately points  
out the general problem addressed by the paper. It also  
makes the reader want to read on—who wouldn't want to  
know where this story is going?  
 
Another example of a great opening, from Centola &  
Baronchelli, PNAS 112, 1989 (2015), reads:  
 
"Social conventions are the foundation for social and  
economic life. However, it remains a central question in the  
social, behavioral, and cognitive sciences to understand how  
these patterns of collective behavior can emerge from seem-  
ingly arbitrary initial conditions."  
 
Here, the problem that drives the research is clearly  
spelled out in the second sentence (however, the exact  
research question does not appear until the fourth para-  
graph). The introduction forms a funnel from the broad  
problem to the more detailed question.  
 
Here is the beginning of the first paragraph of Altarelli et  
al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 112, 118701 (2014):  
 
"Tracing epidemic outbreaks in order to pin down their  
origin is a paramount problem in epidemiology. Compared  
to the pioneering work of John Snow on 1854 London's  
cholera hit [I], modern computational epidemiology can  
rely on accurate clinical data and on powerful computers to  
run large-scale simulations of stochastic compartment  
models. However, like most inverse epidemic problems, 
46 
 
identifying the origin (or seed) of an epidemic outbreak  
remains a challenging problem..."  
 
From the topic (tracing epidemic outbreaks) to the ques-  
tion (identifying the origin of an epidemic) in three  
sentences, with a brief historical detour of the you-know-  
nothing-John-Snow variety. This just works. 
 
 
47 
 
9 
HOW TO WRITE THE MATERIALS AND  
METHODS  
 
"It doesn't matter how beautiful your theory is. If it disagrees  
with experiment, it's wrong. In that simple statement is the key  
to science." — Richard Feynman  
 
hile much of this book has been about how to  
turn your results into an exciting story, we  
now need to put excitement aside for a while.  
I claimed earlier that papers are not just containers of infor-  
mation, but their Methods sections most certainly are. Their  
role is entirely utilitarian. So before we discuss form, let's  
discuss function.  
 
A Methods section serves two purposes. First, it should  
let other researchers gauge whether your conclusions are  
justified and backed up by evidence; it should let them  
assess how credible your data are and how credible your  
analysis is, Second, it should allow other researchers to  
replicate your study and repeat whatever it is that you  
have done,  
 
Unfortunately, as any experienced researcher knows,  
these goals are not always met. More often than not, the 
 
 
48 
 
authors of a paper do not explain their procedures in  
enough detail, even if there is a supporting information  
document with an unrestricted page count. It happens all  
too often that when the reader attempts to really under-  
stand how the authors have arrived at their results, she has  
to give up because this information is simply not there.  
 
Not being able to understand a paper's methods or repli-  
cate its pipeline leads to many problems. First, this  
contributes to the replication crisis and therefore erodes the  
very foundation of science, the scientific principle itself:  
only those results that can be replicated by others can be  
taken as facts. Second, it will be harder to sell your  
discovery to the scientific community if your fellow scien-  
tists cannot trust your findings because they do not under-  
stand how they were obtained. Third, if your pipeline—  
from data collection to analysis—contains new methods or  
ideas that others might be interested in, they will not be  
adopted by anyone unless they are clearly explained. This  
leads to many lost citations and to your work not being  
discovered. If you release data, someone will be able to use  
it to look for things that you didn't think of, and if you  
release your code and data analysis scripts, there will always  
be someone who needs them.  
 
So please take replication and reuse seriously. Explain  
what you have done in as much detail as possible. Release  
your raw data. Release your intermediate results. Release  
your code. Reveal everything. Hide nothing. Be a good  
scientist. Don't be an evil scientist.  
 
If you release everything that there is to release, you will  
probably need to use external repositories. Some journals,  
however, allow you to submit supplementary data and code  
files, to be published together with the article. If you are  
thinking of hosting the data and code yourself, keep in mind 
 
 
49 
 
that we are talking about the scientific record here: your  
paper, your data, and your code should, in theory, be avail-  
able forever. And forever is a mighty long time, as the late  
artist known as Prince once put it. It certainly is longer than  
the lifetime of the URL that points to your homepage on  
your university's server, or of the server daemon that runs  
on the Linux machine in your bedroom closet. So, no DIY  
here please—always use official data repositories such as  
Zenodo (www.zenodo.org). While even those might not last  
forever, they'll last longer than any self-hosted repository.  
Let's return to the paper itself and move from function to  
form. The issue of where to describe materials, data, and  
methods depends on the journal, and there are many  
options. The top-tier journal style (think PNAS, Nature, and  
so on) is to have Materials and Methods as a separate  
section at the end of the article, as an appendix of sorts. In  
these journals, methods are only briefly described in the  
main text, and the reader is referred to the Materials and  
Methods appendix for details. This short letter format is all  
about the story, and technical details that would get in the  
way of the story are pushed aside. It may feel difficult to  
write this way because one cannot hide behind those tech-  
nical details—there has to be a story. But beware of the dark  
side: referring the reader to a Materials and Methods  
section where only superficial details are given and where  
the reader is further referred to the Supplementary Infor-  
mation section that adds detail but still lacks essential infor-  
mation. Or where the limitations of the chosen methods are  
hidden in a subordinate clause on page 28 of the SI. This  
structure can make it dangerously easy to sweep something  
under the rug. Which is why it often happens.  
If you are writing for one of these journals, resist the  
dark side: do not hide problems in the SI. Other than that, 
  
50 
 
just strive for clarity in the Materials and Methods  
appendix. Typically, this section comprises independent  
subsections for different items with their own subheadings,  
so there is not much storytelling involved. In the main text,  
when talking about methods, describe their purpose, not  
their details. For example: "we measure the similarity of X  
and Y with the help of (insert name of fancy similarity  
measure), see Materials and Methods for details."  
Then there is the style common to biomedical journals  
where Methods are described in all their detail straight after  
the Introduction. This makes it easier to report everything  
properly. It also makes it more difficult to hide problems,  
which is good. The downside is that being hit by several  
pages of painstakingly detailed method descriptions is  
something of a turn-off—the story suffers. While this  
cannot be entirely avoided, it helps if you remember to  
provide context: begin each subsection by reminding the  
reader why this dataset was collected, why this experiment  
was done, or why you are about to describe some mathe-  
matical methods. Often, this is no more difficult than simply  
saying that, for example, "to measure the similarity of X and  
Y, we need some well-behaved distance measure for proba-  
bility distributions that..." and then describing the chosen  
measure.  
The third way, commonly used, for example, by some  
journals of the American Physical Society, is to happily mix  
methods with results, explaining how things were done and  
what the outcome was without making a distinction  
between the two. In this case, things like experimental  
setups or data collection procedures may still be explained  
separately, but mathematical and statistical methods are  
typically described together with the results. In my view,  
this makes it easier to write a story that flows well. It is 
 
 
51 
 
easier to motivate the methods by saying: "Next, we'll inves-  
tigate X, and to do that, we need to do Y—here is how you  
do it, and look, here's the result." In the biomedical style,  
this connection is harder to make because the methods and  
results are separated, so one has to focus on making sure  
that the reader understands why the methods have been  
chosen and why the reader should understand their details.  
Before concluding, let us return to being good versus  
being evil, and talk about discussing the limitations of your  
methods. All methods have limitations, as every scientist  
knows, and it is best to lay these out in the open. The  
Methods section is a good place for doing this. While limita-  
tions are often dealt with in the Discussion section, it is  
better to also address them immediately when the methods  
are introduced. This feels more honest to me. First, it feels a  
bit like cheating when the writer only mentions in the last  
paragraph of the paper that "by the way, we're not sure that  
things work the way we just told you they would". Second, it  
is easier for the writer to explain the limitations together  
with the methods. Third, it is also easier for the reader to  
understand the limitations and their implications if the  
details of the methods are fresh in her memory.  
To summarise this chapter: when writing Materials and  
Methods, be a good scientist. Reveal everything and give the  
scientific community as much as you can, using data and  
code repositories in addition to your paper. Always motivate  
method descriptions, so that the reader doesn't have to  
wonder why you suddenly start explaining some procedure  
in detail. Discuss limitations of your methods openly.  
 
 
52 
 
10 
HOW TO WRITE THE RESULTS, PART I: 
FIGURES  
 
"We are lucky to live in an age in which we are still making  
discoveries." — Richard Feynman  
 
 solid, tried-and-tested approach is to begin  
outlining the results section with the figures and  
their order of appearance. If you have followed  
the approach detailed in the first chapters of this book, your  
results already come with handily categorised labels (setup,  
confrontation, resolution, and epilogue). The main result is  
the resolution of the story, and the rest form parts of the  
setup, confrontation, or epilogue plot phases.  
 
If your paper follows the standard Introduction-Meth-  
ods-Results-Discussion structure, the Introduction doesn’t  
usually contain any figures except for schematic diagrams of  
the setup category (which may also go into Methods).  
Figures and tables depicting your results will be placed in  
the Results section; within this section, the figures of the  
setup category come first and those of the epilogue  
come last. So you’ve already done much of the work before you 
53 
 
have even begun outlining the Results section—the respec-  
tive plot phases of the figures mostly determine their order.  
All that remains is to choose the order in which the results  
and schematic diagrams are shown within each category:  
which figure leads to the next?  
The order of figures should tell a clear story so that each  
figure builds on the previous ones. You can use a multi-  
panel figure to tell a self-contained part of your story,  
forming a miniature story arc. You can combine, for exam-  
ple, a schematic diagram that explains your experiment (set-  
up), some basic statistics of your data (setup), and a result  
plot that contains an unexpected finding (confrontation).  
This three-to-four-panel mini-story figure is a technique I  
often employ in letter-format papers where the story has to  
move fast and get to the point quickly. The figure already  
brings the story close to the resolution and the key result.  
When choosing the order of presentation, focus on  
making your point as convincingly as possible and in the  
most exciting manner. This doesn't necessarily have  
anything to do with historical accuracy—there is no rule  
about presenting your findings in the same order as they  
emerged. A paper is not a historical account of your  
research: it is a story that makes a point.  
When you have chosen the order of your figures, write a  
draft version of the caption for each figure. You may need to  
revise the captions later, so don't worry about making them  
perfect. But try to ensure the captions are self-contained  
enough for a hasty reader to be able to grasp the main point  
of your paper just by glancing through your figures. In fact,  
this is exactly what a great many readers do—they just skim.  
This is also what the editor of your journal will do before  
deciding whether your paper is worth a closer look or  
deserves to be rejected outright. So help your readers and 
 
54 
 
make skimming easier by writing easy-to-follow, self-  
contained captions.  
 
How long to make the captions depends on your jour-  
nal. In some of the letter-format top-tier journals, captions  
tend to be quite long and contain almost the entire story. In  
the lesser journals where us mere mortals are published,  
figures are usually discussed at length in the main text too,  
and therefore the captions can be shorter—but resist  
making them too short. Always make sure that your  
captions reflect what the reader should learn from looking  
at the figures. A caption that only states "here we see Y  
plotted as a function of X" is useless. This caption is entirely  
redundant if you have already labeled the axes of your plot  
(and if you haven't, repent for your sins, and label them  
NOW). Always tell the reader what she should see in the  
figure: how should the plot be interpreted? What is the  
message of the figure?  
 
Because much of your story will be told by figures, let's  
talk about figure quality. Figures are tremendously impor-  
tant because those who only skim through the paper won't  
see much else. And, I repeat, this means the majority of your  
readers. Figures make the first impression, and first impres-  
sions matter: good-looking figures may convert skimmers to  
readers. Clear, high-quality figures that look professional  
demonstrate that considerable effort has been put into the  
paper, rendering the reader more likely to trust its contents.  
Amateurish-looking figures with a colour scheme straight  
out of the 1995 version of PowerPoint will leave the reader  
wondering if the results are of the same dubious quality.  
 
So make sure that your figures look good. To do this,  
learn the ropes of whatever program you use to generate  
your figures, whether it is a Python or R library or a stand-  
alone piece of software (like Gnuplot, which has been 
 
 
55 
 
around since the dawn of man and will probably outlast  
even cockroaches once mankind has been wiped out). In  
particular, learn how to change fonts, how to increase or  
decrease font size, and how to use proper LaTeX-style fonts  
wherever appropriate. Learn how to choose and manipulate  
colours, colour schemes, symbols, and shadings. Learn how  
to produce figures of particular dimensions. Learn to match  
figure size to your target journal's column width—not  
having to scale the figures takes some of the guesswork out  
of choosing font sizes (see below).  
 
Learn to use a vector graphics editor to post-process  
your figures (and learn the difference between bitmap  
images, which are made of pixels, and scalable vector graph-  
ics, which are made of lines and arcs and Bezier curves). At  
the time of writing, the industry standard (design industry,  
that is) would be Adobe Illustrator, but there are many free  
alternatives such as Inkscape. With a vector graphics editor,  
it is easy to assemble multi-panel figures that combine  
schematic diagrams (drawn with the same editor) with plots  
saved in vector formats (PDF, SVG). You can also add text,  
arrows, indicators, and so on, and you can retouch your  
plots, change line widths, and alter the colours of symbols  
or their overall appearance. Often, this is much faster than  
trying to get everything right when producing the plots with  
your data analysis or plotting software.  
 
A few words on the layout: always align things. Nothing  
says "I am being careless" more clearly than subplots and  
schematics that are not lined up neatly—it takes just a few  
seconds to do this. Use white space properly: leave enough  
white space so that things can breathe, but don't leave so  
much white space that the figures look barren.  
 
Discussing data visualisation at length is beyond the  
scope of this book, but I'd still like to mention a few things. 
 
 
56 
 
Let's start with colour: pay attention to your colour schemes.  
For plot symbols, there are nicer, more informative schemes  
than the pure-RGB red, green, and blue symbols that some  
programs use by default. Additionally, your reader might  
have a hard time distinguishing between red and green. For  
maximal clarity, always use different symbols AND colours  
for different curves. If you want a personalised colour  
scheme, search the web for colour scheme generators (you  
have already learned how to set hexadecimal colour values  
in your program, right?). For things like heat maps, pay  
attention to the colours you use: make sure that they don't  
artificially highlight some range of values (for example, by  
displaying a range of data points in striking red even though  
those points are not that different from the others). In all  
cases, use colours consistently throughout your figures. If  
red and blue are categorical indicators of two different data  
sets in one plot, don't use red and blue to indicate high and  
low values in a heat map elsewhere in your paper. Reserve  
red and blue for the two data sets and always use them this  
way. Likewise, if you use a colour map with a gradient from  
low to high values, reserve its colours for this purpose alone.  
 
Next, think carefully about labels and fonts. Always  
label your axes. This is self-evident but worth mentioning  
explicitly. Forgetting to label the axes of a plot should feel  
like forgetting to get dressed when leaving for work in the  
morning—and yet it still happens all too often. So, I repeat:  
label your axes, period. At all stages of your work, even if the  
plot is just a draft for your own eyes. And when labelling,  
make sure that the fonts you use remain large enough when  
the figure is scaled to its intended size. Not paying attention  
to font size is a very common problem among beginners,  
but there are many published papers where you need a  
magnifying glass to understand what is going on in the 
 
 
57 
 
figures. I suspect this problem is rooted in the defaults of  
some commonly used software packages, as default font  
sizes are almost always tiny. I've rarely (if ever) seen plots  
with annoyingly large fonts, so if in doubt, double your  
font size.  
 
Finally, a few words about "having an eye for design".  
While beautiful and impressive figures seem to come more  
naturally to some, every student can learn to produce good-  
looking visuals. I've heard many people say "1 cannot draw,  
and therefore my figures look ugly", but—as with any skill  
—it just takes time and patience; you don't need to go to art  
school to learn the essentials. Just as the key to illustration is  
learning to observe things carefully and analytically, the  
secret to producing great-looking figures is understanding  
how they should look. This is best learned by imitation. The  
next time you have a plot that you are not entirely satisfied  
with, look up a similar figure in a journal article that you  
like. Look at the two figures side by side, and try to spot the  
differences in composition, colours, fonts, line widths, and  
so on. Then modify your figure so that it resembles the  
reference figure more, and keep on modifying it until you  
are satisfied with the outcome. 
 
 
58 
 
11 
HOW TO WRITE THE RESULTS, PART  
II: TEXT  
 
"The scientist only imposes two things, namely truth and  
sincerity, imposes them upon himself and upon other scientists."  
— Erwin Schrödinger  
 
he arc of the results section follows the order of  
the figures, from the setup to the confrontation  
and from the resolution to the epilogue. The  
results of the first phase (setup) introduce the reader to your  
data. They make your final conclusions credible by showing  
what is in your data and letting the reader gauge whether it  
looks OK. The results of the second phase (confrontation)  
point out that there is something surprising that needs to be  
sorted out. The results of the third phase present the resolu-  
tion of the problem, and the results of the epilogue phase  
show what follows from the main finding and why that  
matters. They would not necessarily work as stand-alone  
results.  
 
Make sure that the reader can easily follow the arc. She  
should always know where she is and where she is heading  
next. One way of making sure the reader is on the map is to 
 
 
T
59 
 
further divide your results into subcategories, discussed in  
their own subsections that come with informative headings.  
You can develop subsection headings by condensing each  
result into a single short sentence and then using this  
sentence as your heading. This way, each result gets its own  
subsection where it can be explained in detail. Note here  
that "a result" does not necessarily mean a single plot or  
figure but rather a conclusion that may be based on several  
pieces of evidence.  
 
With your results section organised in this way, the  
reader can get a quick overview of the whole section by  
scanning the subsection headings and the figure captions.  
Again, remember that most readers just skim.  
 
The above technique is an example of so-called sign-  
posting, where the whole paper is made more accessible by  
covering it with signposts that tell the reader where she is.  
Clear section headings help, as do clear figure captions  
whose first sentence should explain what the figure is about.  
Clearly formulated key phrases are also very useful.  
 
In your Results section, the most important signposts  
are the subsection headings, the first sentences of figure  
captions, and something we haven't discussed yet: the first  
sentence of each results subsection. These sentences  
should motivate and provide background for the subsec-  
tion: why was this experiment conducted? Why was the  
analysis done that led to this result, and why are we  
discussing this result? A useful construct to launch the first  
sentence of a results subsection is "To understand X, we  
measured Y..."—or something similar. Even though the  
motivation has already been mentioned in the Introduction  
and possibly in the Methods as well, it is still good practice  
to begin with a sentence that reminds the reader of why  
she is reading this part (unless the paper is a very short 
 
 
60 
 
letter and the introduction appears just a few paragraphs  
earlier).  
 
So, what else is there in a results subsection? Well,  
results, of course. But there are several layers here.  
 
The lowest layer contains your "pure" results. These are  
essentially just data: you measured X, here's what you got  
You computed Y, here is a table. The second layer contains  
direct and unambiguous interpretations of these data: "the  
distribution of X measured under condition A clearly has a  
lower mean than when measured under condition B," or "Y  
grows faster as a function of time than Z." And so on. While  
such statements may already contain the main conclusion,  
an additional layer of interpretation is usually required to  
give meaning to the findings.  
 
The above layers form a logical order of presentation for  
each of your results subsections. Begin the subsection with  
motivation and background. Then briefly tell the reader  
what you have done, either by referring the reader to the  
Methods section or, if you are writing mixed results and  
methods, by presenting your methods here. Then explain  
the results that you have obtained and talk about how you  
interpret them. Make it clear which layer you are talking  
about: what is an indisputable fact, what is interpretation,  
and what is speculation. Use signposts for this. For example,  
saying "these results can be interpreted as follows" helps the  
reader to understand that there might be other ways of  
interpreting the results. Do not exaggerate or over-gener-  
alise: if there are limitations that haven't been addressed  
already (say, in the Methods section), be open about them.  
 
There are traditions in some disciplines, such as certain  
biomedical fields, where the Results section is strictly about  
results. In this fundamentalist interpretation, the Results  
section should only contain the first layer (pure data) and 
 
 
61 
 
perhaps some of the second layer ("these data have a lower  
mean than those data"). The third layer—the interpretation  
of the results—should then be left for the Discussion  
section and not even be mentioned in the Results. To me,  
this is borderline insane (and may have been invented by  
the same evil people who run journals that send papers to  
referees with the figures separated from the text and the  
captions separated from the figures). Why make the reader's  
life difficult by forcing her to jump back and forth between  
the Results and the Discussion? If you work in one of those  
disciplines where this is the norm, it may still be possible to  
have a separate discussion section that directly follows each  
result (or subsection of Results). If not, I guess you'll just  
have to obey the rules, or at least look like you are obeying  
the rules. But don't do it willingly: always try to sneakily  
insert at least one sentence that explains your findings.  
Rejoice if the editor and the referees don't notice it!  
 
Finally, before we move on to the Discussion section, I  
have one more trick to share. It is common to begin a para-  
graph in the results section with "In Figure 1, we see that..."  
Next time you read a paper, try to be conscious of your own  
response to this. What do you do? Do you directly jump to  
Figure 1 and look at it and then try to get back to the middle  
of the sentence that you were just reading? Can you resist  
the impulse? Even if you can, you still FEEL the impulse,  
don't you? It is impossible not to feel it. And the impulse  
makes it harder for you to follow the sentence to its conclu-  
sion. So always refer the reader to the figure last, not first:  
FINISH the sentence with "as we see in Figure 1" or some-  
thing similar. This way, when the reader arrives at your  
mental hyperlink, she has already read and processed your  
sentence and knows what to look for in Figure I. 
 
 
62 
 
12 
HOW TO WRITE THE DISCUSSION  
 
"Before the result of a measurement can be used, it must be  
interpreted—nature's answer must be understood properly." — 
Max Planck  
 
ime to wrap up the paper! You have presented  
your research question, its greater role in the  
universe, and your findings. Now let's close the  
circle and discuss your answers and the questions that still  
remain, or the questions that you have just discovered. This  
is what the Discussion section is for.  
 
Before we get started, a note for those poor souls who  
work in fields where you are not supposed to discuss your  
results in the Results section at all (see the previous chap-  
ter): in this case, the Results section just contains data, and  
therefore the Discussion section usually has two parts,  
Discussion and General Discussion. The first part, Discus-  
sion, is about interpreting each of your results, which I have  
already covered in the previous chapter. The second part,  
General Discussion, is what we will cover next, and I'll just 
 
 
63 
 
refer to it as Discussion from now on. Sorry for the confu-  
sion (not my fault).  
 
And while we are at it, what's the difference between  
Discussion and Conclusion? The Conclusion is typically  
fairly short—it is almost like an echo of the abstract. It is a  
summary of what you have done and adds no new ideas or  
thoughts. In contrast, the Discussion section can introduce  
new points and insights and show how your findings relate  
to the broader issue at hand.  
 
In the Discussion section, you should remind the reader  
of your research question and provide a synthesis of your  
results. You should present the answer to your question and  
show how it contributes to solving the broader problem that  
you painted in the Abstract and the Introduction. You  
should suggest further research based on your results. You  
should also contextualise your results (and your research  
problem) within the literature—this is a good opportunity  
to cite more papers that illustrate where your results fit in  
and what they mean. It is quite common to cite papers in  
the Discussion that were not cited in the Introduction: the  
Introduction and the Discussion are usually the sections of  
the paper that feature the most citations.  
 
When discussing the significance of your results, avoid  
over-generalisation even though everyone else does it and it  
creates catchy headlines for journals and the media. Don't  
exaggerate. Be an honest scientist. It will pay off in the long  
run. You can also turn any generalisability issues into ques-  
tions: instead of claiming that your observation is generally  
valid, ask if it can be replicated under different conditions or  
in different sets of data. You never know, one of your readers  
might take up the challenge,  
 
A good Discussion section contains plenty of questions 
 
 
64 
 
in addition to answers. These questions may be concerned  
with the remaining knowledge gap: what else needs to be  
found out on top of your results to solve the broader prob-  
lem, or to further research in the area that your work has  
addressed? Perhaps, as often happens, there are genuinely  
new questions now—questions that your work has revealed.  
 
While it is common to discuss the limitations of your  
work in the Discussion section, this should not be the first  
time they are mentioned. Let the reader know about them  
earlier——be open from the very beginning. All technical  
limitations should be discussed together with your meth-  
ods. You should also be clear about what you can and  
cannot conclude from your results in the Results section.  
 
When addressing limitations, you should tread care-  
fully: there is a difference between being honest and making  
it sound like your study is flawed. Joshua Schimel's Writing  
Science introduces a great principle: say "but, yes" instead of  
"yes, but". Instead of saying that your results would be even  
clearer if your experimental setup had a higher resolution,  
say that even though the resolution of your experimental  
setup is limited, your results are nevertheless quite convinc-  
ing. The latter has a much more positive ring to it even  
though both sentences have the same information content.  
Don't make it sound like there is something wrong with  
your work—and if there is, fix it before writing your paper.  
 
In general, there is plenty of freedom to choose how you  
shape the Discussion section. One common approach is to  
begin to remind the reader of the broader knowledge gap  
and the specific research question of the paper. You can  
then proceed through the results one by one, perhaps  
grouping them to make certain points, and summing up all  
evidence before arriving at the final conclusion. 
 
 
65 
 
 
Alternatively, you can begin the Discussion by recapping  
your research question and your main result. This is the  
inverted pyramid style, where you begin with the key points  
—the question and the answer—and then add the details  
and different points of view, which often appear in  
decreasing order of importance.  
 
Whatever structure you choose, the last paragraph of  
the Discussion section is very important. It contains the last  
words of your paper, your final thoughts before getting into  
back matter such as Acknowledgements. Do not waste those  
words! Endings are power positions, and the last words of  
your paper will be remembered by your readers (or at least  
by those who made it this far and the skimmers who  
jumped directly to the end). So always end on a high note. If  
the reader has been with you this far, reward her at the end.  
 
One good way of ending the Discussion section—and  
the paper—is to write a short paragraph that recaps your  
conclusion and the significance of your work. You can even  
signpost this to the reader and begin the paragraph with the  
words "in conclusion, we have shown that..." This para-  
graph can be written in the style of a news lede. What did  
you find out and why? What does it mean? What are its  
broader implications? How has your work concretely  
contributed to the big picture? Where have you arrived at  
from your starting point? How has the world changed  
because of your results? This paragraph closes the circle  
and resonates with your Introduction.  
 
There are some all-too-common ways of ending a paper  
with a whimper instead of a bang. One such way is to focus  
on the limitations of your work in a negative light. Another  
common problem is ending the paper with a vague state-  
ment. "Further research is needed" is a platitude and a 
 
 
66 
 
vague one at that. Further research is always needed!  
Instead, go for something like: "Because of the results of this  
paper, we are now in a position to tackle problem X with  
method Y, bringing us closer to the ultimate goal of Z." This  
is far more concrete and memorable. 
 
 
67 
 
PART III 
WORDS 
 
 
68 
 
 
 
 
69 
 
13 
HOW DOES YOUR READER READ?  
 
"Words are to sentences what atoms are to molecules: the basic  
building blocks that control structure and function. If we extend  
that analogy, paragraphs become cells: the fundamental unit of  
life. A cell gains life from its structure, a structure that creates  
internal cohesion and external connection, allowing it to  
function as part of a larger organism." — Joshua Schimel,  
Writing Science  
 
inally, after all this planning and outlining, it is  
time to start filling in the blanks. It is time to write  
words that form sentences that form paragraphs  
that form sections that form your story.  
Because of the top-down approach that has brought you  
here, coming up with words and sentences should now be  
easier than if you had simply started with a blank page. You  
should already have an outline of the paper and a plan for  
each paragraph—now you just need to turn those notes into  
full sentences!  
 
How do we write effective sentences? From the point of  
view of the reader, the best sentences are those that are easy 
 
 
F
70 
 
to understand and say all the right things in the right order.  
The reader should always be able to anticipate what comes  
next. From the point of view of the writer, feeling empathy  
for the reader is useful. A good writer tries to look through  
the reader's eyes, taking her hand and guiding her through  
the text, making her job as easy as possible.  
 
To act as a guide through the text, the writer has to  
gently manipulate the short-term memory of the reader. It  
has been argued that one's short-term memory can only  
hold seven things—such as digits—at a given time. When it  
comes to concepts that are more complex than digits, even  
seven sounds like an awful lot to me. There is only so much  
anyone can hold in their head.  
 
When a piece of text feels too hard to grasp, this is not  
necessarily because the ideas therein are difficult. It might  
be due to a problem with the sentences whose job it is to  
deliver those ideas and to make them comprehensible.  
Often, the order of presentation is at the root of the prob-  
lem. The reader has to struggle if she has to keep too many  
concepts in her short-term memory without knowing how  
they are connected. Bad writing randomly jumps from one  
thought to another. This creates a confusion of thoughts  
and ideas without giving a clue as to how they relate to one  
another.  
 
What is the right order of things, then? What should  
come first in a sentence or in a paragraph? To answer this  
question, we have to consider how the reader processes  
information—how the reader reads. So, let's think of the  
reader as an automaton of sorts, with three types of memo-  
ries that you can manipulate. Each type of memory plays a  
different role in interpreting and understanding the words,  
sentences, and paragraphs that the reader encounters.  
 
Long-term memory contains the key concepts that are 
 
 
71 
 
required for understanding the paper. This memory is  
initialised in the Introduction, and populated with more  
items as the reader reads on. Whenever new concepts  
become established in the paper, they are added to this  
memory.  
 
Medium-term memory holds the concepts that are  
essential for connecting the dots in front of the reader—for  
making sense of things in the current paragraph. In particu-  
lar, this memory contains the current paragraph's topic (or  
the reader's interpretation of it). Not all concepts remain in  
this memory for long: many are flushed out at the end of  
each paragraph. If you are familiar with time series analysis,  
you can think of this memory as a sliding window of sorts.  
 
Short-term memory holds concepts that are required for  
making sense of the current sentence: what its subject is,  
what its verb is, and what its object is, or in other words,  
who does what to whom. In addition to grammar, this short-  
term memory is essential for relating the concepts encoun-  
tered in the sentence to one another. As the reader reads,  
the words and concepts of a sentence are placed in this  
memory in their order of appearance. This memory is  
emptied at the end of each sentence.  
 
How do these different types of memory work? When  
the reader reads, she consumes the words from the left to  
the right and interprets them with the help of all three. The  
short-term memory helps to parse the current sentence and  
link its words to one another. The medium-term and long-  
term memory determine how words and concepts are inter-  
preted; they help to extract meaning from the sentences.  
 
If all goes well and the reader understands the words in  
front of her, the concepts that those words hold are first put  
into the short-term memory, to be flushed out at the end of  
the sentence once the reader has understood its meaning. At 
 
 
72 
 
that point, relevant higher-level concepts formed by the  
words in the short-term memory are moved to the medium- 
term memory, to be used in deciphering the rest of the para-  
graph. At the end of each paragraph, this medium-term  
memory is given a vigorous shaking so that unnecessary  
baggage falls out. Those concepts that stay and prove to be  
useful may transcend to the long-term memory.  
 
But if the reader encounters something that is inexplic-  
able—something that doesn't match with anything in any  
memory—an error occurs and the reader is lost. Or, worse,  
if the reader parses the current sentence using a wrong  
concept, she can become entirely derailed.  
 
Because of the way this parsing automaton operates, the  
first words of a sentence are tremendously important, and so  
is the first sentence of a paragraph.  
 
The first words of a sentence initialise the short-term  
memory, determining how the rest of the sentence is under-  
stood. They define the topic of the sentence. As the reader  
reads on, the words that she encounters are interpreted in a  
way that makes sense in light of this topic. The more words  
accumulate in the short-term memory, the more the reader  
has to struggle to connect the words to one another to make  
sense of the sentence. In particular, if the sentence is  
constructed in such a way that its meaning hinges on its  
final word(s), it becomes taxing to read and difficult to  
comprehend.  
 
So based on our model of the reader's short-term  
memory, the perfect sentence begins with words that clearly  
define its topic. The perfect sentence is also short and  
compact. It helps if the order of words allows the reader to  
parse most of the sentence up to the current word. Place  
familiar words and concepts at the beginning of the 
 
 
73 
 
sentence, and use them to explain anything that might be  
unfamiliar later on in the sentence.  
 
A similar logic applies to paragraphs. The first sentence  
of a paragraph establishes its topic, which is stored the  
medium-term memory and used to interpret the paragraph.  
So choose the first sentence well, and make it sure that the  
reader can immediately understand what the paragraph is  
about. The first sentence sets the expectations of the reader  
and determines how she will attempt to interpret everything  
that follows.  
 
One way to make the topic of the paragraph clear is to  
begin with a phrase that acts as a signpost, telling the reader  
where the paragraph is going. Examples include "To  
measure how X depends on Y, we constructed an elaborate  
apparatus..." and "In conclusion, in this paper, we have  
shown that..." When the reader knows what to expect, inter-  
preting the rest of the paragraph is easier.  
 
Once you have established the topic of the paragraph,  
always stick to it. An unexpected, unconnected sentence  
breaks the flow and leaves the reader baffled. But a sentence  
that makes sense in light of the topic will be interpreted  
properly, and it will set expectations for the sentence that  
follows.  
 
It's not only beginnings that are important—endings  
matter, too. The end of a paragraph and the end of a  
sentence signal a break, so the reader has more time to  
think about the last few words. This means that the last  
words carry extra weight in the mind of the reader, almost  
unconsciously. You can take advantage of this by placing  
things that you want to emphasise in these stress positions. 
 
 
74 
 
14 
HOW TO WRITE YOUR FIRST DRAFT  
 
"To write is human, to edit is divine." — Stephen King  
 
he best and most productive writers do not write  
perfect first drafts. The best and most productive  
writers write crappy first drafts, and they do this  
as quickly as possible. Then they edit, revise, and polish  
their drafts until they are no longer crappy (and no longer  
drafts). Or until the deadline makes them stop—whichever  
comes first.  
 
This is what you should do with your paper, too: write  
the first draft quickly, and then edit, revise, polish, rinse, and  
repeat until you are satisfied with the outcome. Or until the  
deadline arrives.  
 
If you have followed the approach of this book, you are  
now at the point where you are ready to write your first  
draft. You have a story, you have a structure, and you have a  
plan for each section and each paragraph. If you have read  
the previous chapter, you have an idea about how to  
organise the building blocks of paragraphs and sentences. 
 
 
75 
 
This is all you need to write your first draft. Later I will  
provide lots of tips for editing your draft.  
 
For the time being, write a complete first draft quickly  
and dirtily. Forget perfection. Let your first draft be human,  
let it be imperfect, let it be crappy! Writing and then  
polishing a crappy first draft is much, much faster than  
agonising over every word and sentence. Making perfect  
choices takes forever. Spend that time on editing and  
revising instead.  
 
Now that you finally have to produce some text, this is  
where the pain of writing typically hits you. Coming up  
with plans and storylines can be fun, but writing rarely is.  
Writing is hard work, and a first draft is particularly difficult  
because it is hard not to be self-conscious and hard not to let  
your inner critic stop you mid-sentence.  
 
This prospect can feel overwhelming, especially for  
beginners. How can we ease this pain? How can we write all  
the words that need to be written in order to produce a  
paper? Let's discuss some possible solutions.  
 
First and foremost, make the initial draft your own  
(crappy) little secret. It is not for your supervisor or your co-  
authors to see—it is for no one else's eyes but yours. It serves  
as raw material for editing only. When your supervisor asks  
you for the first draft, give her your second draft instead (by all  
means, call it the first!). Keeping your first draft private should  
make you less self-conscious, at least in theory: no one except  
you will ever see it, so it doesn't matter that it's imperfect.  
 
Aim to produce more text than you need. Just let the  
words come! At this stage, it's fine to have sentences that are  
too long, it's fine to repeat yourself, and it's fine to explain  
the same thing over and over again in different words. If you  
are writing, say, one of those four-page letter-style papers 
 
 
76 
 
with restricted word counts, do not think about the length at  
all. Just write. Cutting text is easier than producing it, and  
the editing phase easily reduces the length of your text by  
10-30 per cent. In my experience, the more the better.  
 
In order to be productive, schedule your writing time  
and stick to it. Never wait for inspiration to strike because it  
rarely strikes those who just sit there waiting. The muses  
dislike idleness: they tend to show up when you are already  
engaged in work. Just sit down, put your phone on silent,  
remove all clutter from your screen, shut down your  
internet access, and do it. Write. A good target is something  
like 30-45 minutes of uninterrupted writing, followed by a  
break. For a really good day's work, four to five sessions are  
enough. Just keep on doing this daily until you find yourself  
at the end of your draft.  
 
If you get stuck, try changing the way you write. Take a  
pen and a notepad, and walk away from the computer. Sit  
down somewhere, get a cup of decent coffee, and sketch  
your sentences on paper. Try to write as if you were making  
lecture notes or just jotting down ideas. Once unstuck, go  
back to your computer and use the material in your notes to  
continue. Or, instead of a notepad, try dictation, or perhaps  
go for a walk, and play out imagined conversations in your  
head where you explain to someone whatever it is that you  
are supposed to be writing.  
 
If you have a problem with letting go and find it hard to  
make progress because of that nasty self-conscious voice in  
the back of your head, one option is to try the Morning  
Pages technique. This technique was introduced by Julia  
Cameron in her book, The Artist's Way, as a tool for artists to  
overcome whatever it is that holds them back. The Morning  
Pages technique uses stream-of-consciousness writing to  
provide desensitisation through repeated exposure. Take a 
 
 
77 
 
pen and a journal each morning and write three whole,  
longhand pages about your research, filling them with  
anything that comes into your mind. See where this leads  
you! This may feel difficult at first, but just keep on writing.  
 
If you feel that it is impossible to get some part of your  
text just right, this is often a sign—a message from yourself.  
When you are stuck with a paragraph that just won't yield,  
stop trying to force it. Instead, ask yourself: why is this so  
difficult? Search your feelings. What would make that para-  
graph easy to write, what are you missing? Often, you will  
notice that you are not faced with a writing problem at all—  
rather, you are missing some important piece of under-  
standing. Perhaps your result is not clear after all, or you  
have not thought enough about some tricky issue, and that  
is why you cannot express it in words. If so, take a timeout,  
and look for understanding first; the words will come more  
easily when you have found it. 
 
 
78 
 
15 
HOW TO EDIT YOUR FIRST DRAFT  
 
"Write with the door closed, rewrite with the door open."— 
Stephen King  
 
f you have followed the advice in the last chapter, you  
should now be the proud owner of a crappy first draft  
—a draft that serves as raw material and is for your  
eyes only.  
 
Now it is time for you to put on another hat and play a  
different role. It is time to look at your draft critically and to  
examine each and every sentence and paragraph ruthlessly,  
so that you can cut out anything that doesn't pull its weight.  
 
Before you do that, however, it might be a good idea to  
take a step back from your paper because a fresh pair of eyes  
can better spot what needs to be done. If possible, do some-  
thing else for a few days and then return to your paper.  
 
The process of editing and revising is iterative, and it can  
take many rounds: my most-cited paper was at version  
number 27 or so when it was finally submitted. This may  
sound a bit excessive, but hey, it worked! You don't always 
 
 
79 
 
need to go to that length; just be sure to complete several  
rounds of revisions, first alone and then with the help of  
your co-authors and/or your supervisor.  
 
A top-down approach, like the one we took when  
writing our draft, will work best when revising it. Begin by  
addressing broader issues—read the draft quickly, without  
getting stuck on sentences, words, or other nitty-gritty  
details. Focus on story and structure: is the story logical and  
exciting? Are concepts introduced in the right order? Are  
there sections that are too long or lacking in detail? I'll  
provide you with handy checklist that you can follow in  
Chapter 16.  
 
The answers to the above questions may result in the  
need to "remix" the paper: to shuffle its contents around, to  
reorder things, and to completely rewrite some sections.  
This is normal, and just do it if you feel the need. Then,  
repeat the top-level analysis of your draft and see if you can  
think of ways to improve the text further. If the answer is  
yes, do it. Repeat this loop until you are happy with the  
outcome and satisfied with the overall structure and flow of  
your paper.  
 
At this stage, you may even feel like returning to your  
research, perhaps to look for new results that could  
strengthen your conclusion. If so and if there is time, then  
by all means do it, but please remember that your research  
must stop at some pointe There will always be new findings  
just around the corner—leave some of them for the  
next paper,  
 
When you are happy with the structure, you can focus  
On paragraphs and sentences with clarity and readability in  
mind. Again, I'll provide you with a checklist (see Chapter  
17). Check your figures as well (see Chapter 10). 
 
 
80 
 
 
Finally, when everything seems to be in place, do a 
shortening edit with the aim of removing clutter and super- 
fluous words. Make every sentence shorter that can be made  
shorter. Remove all adjectives, unless they are completely  
necessary. Remove all repetition. Remove words that exag-  
gerate things because you will sound more confident  
without them. Remove every instance of the word "very"  
because you never need it.  
 
When you are ready to show your improved draft to  
others, you can apply a technique that my research group  
has borrowed from the software industry: Extreme Editing.  
 
In the software industry, "Extreme Programming" is one  
of the fashionable agile techniques, part of which involves  
programming in pairs. So, edit in pairs! Or, if there are more  
co-authors, involve as many of them as possible. Force your  
PhD supervisor to reserve several hours of uninterrupted  
quality time with you and your draft. You can argue that this  
is a good investment because a co-editing session takes less  
time than several rounds of traditional red-pen  
commenting.  
 
This is how Extreme Editing works: go to a meeting  
room with a large enough screen and open the draft on the  
screen, zooming in so that everyone can easily read the text.  
Then, go through the text together, paragraph by paragraph  
and sentence by sentence. Be critical of each word and each  
sentence; look for sentences that are unclear or those that  
could be misunderstood. Try to find ways of reducing clutter  
and shortening sentences. Trim the fat wherever possible. In  
my group, we jokingly keep a tally of points scored for every  
word removed. The winner is the one who has most ruth-  
lessly killed the largest number of words that just tagged  
along, doing no real service to the text. 
 
 
81 
 
 
In the following two chapters, I will present some  
detailed tips for revising your draft, first focusing on the  
level of meaning and structure, and then on the level of  
sentences. 
 
 
82 
 
16 
TIPS FOR REVISING CONTENT AND  
STRUCTURE  
 
"Rewriting is the essence of writing well." — William Zinsser,  
On Writing Well  
 
s discussed in the previous chapter, when editing  
your paper's first draft, my suggestion is to do two  
passes. During the first pass, you should focus on  
structure and content: does the draft contain the right things  
in the right order? Then, once you are happy with the big  
picture, do a second pass that focuses on words and  
sentences.  
 
Here is a checklist for the first pass:  
 Check the abstract and make sure that it follows  
the hourglass structure: broad context, narrower  
context, your research question, your result, your  
result's implications on your (sub)field of science,  
the broader implications of your result. 
 Check that your paper is focused. Make sure it is  
consistent with the choices you made at the  
outset about the point of the paper and its key 
 
 
83 
 
 
conclusion. Leave out results that are not  
 
required for supporting the key conclusion, or  
 
safely tuck them away in the supplementary  
 
information document. When editing, if you feel  
 
that your paper loses its focus at some point, take  
 
a step back and then try to address the issue; if  
 
needs be, see my advice on remixing the paper in  
 
the previous section.  
 Check that there is a clear question and a clear  
answer. A good paper states and then solves a  
problem; your results are only meaningful if they  
solve a meaningful problem. Remember that  
your paper is neither an account of your work  
nor a lab diary; it should be a story of an  
important problem and its solution. Emphasise  
the problem, both in the Introduction—where it  
should really stand out—and in the Results and  
Discussion sections. Show the reader how each  
result contributes to solving the problem, and  
what the implications of solving the problem are. 
 Check that the figures tell your story. If you just  
glance through the figures and skim their  
captions, do you get the point of the paper? If  
not, go back and work on them. 
 Check that you have provided all the necessary  
information for the reader to be able to replicate  
your results. Verify that your Methods section  
(and the supplementary sections if you have any)  
contains everything that the reader needs to  
know. Also check that you have provided links to  
your code and your data. 
 Check that the Discussion section contains  
questions, not just answers. 
  
84 
 
 Check that the paper ends with something  
concrete and worth remembering. Endings have  
power. Do not waste this power.  
 Check that you have provided enough  
 
background information: your reader does not  
 
know what you know. Assuming that your reader  
 
knows much more than you and consequently  
 
omitting necessary background information is a  
 
very common problem among students. A typical  
 
example would be a Methods section that  
 
directly launches into what you have done  
 
without first explaining why. While it is evident  
 
to you that to get from A to B you need to do X,  
 
this is probably far less obvious to the reader.  
 
 
Never assume that the reader knows your  
 
motivation or the details of every method you.  
 
Tell her. Many students seem to think that they  
 
know a little while everyone else knows a lot. It is  
 
only later in their careers when they realise that  
 
no one really knows that much! Besides, your  
 
readers will include people from adjacent  
 
(sub)fields and readers who are just learning the  
 
tricks of the trade. Ask a colleague who works on  
 
something slightly different to you to be your test  
 
reader. Ask her which parts of the text are hard to  
 
follow, and revise accordingly. 
 Make sure that your writing is not confusing—  
your reader shouldn't have to work too hard. Feel  
empathy for your reader and try to get inside her  
head, assuming that she knows nothing or very  
little. Gently guide your reader through your text.  
Steadily bring the reader from result to result,  
from paragraph to paragraph, and from sentence 
 
 
85 
 
to sentence. Never leave it to the reader to  
connect the dots—always connect the dots for  
her. Err on the side of caution. Papers where  
things have been over-explained are rare (if they  
exist at all), but papers that are too difficult to  
follow are frustratingly common. 
 Check that your nomenclature and notation are  
consistent. Using an outside reader as a guinea  
pig is recommended here, as this problem may  
be hard for you to spot because you have been  
immersed in the world of your paper. Problems  
with naming things are notoriously tricky to  
detect; problems with notation are slightly easier  
but can still prove difficult. There are often a  
number of concepts floating around when you  
are doing research and conceptualising the  
paper, and the very same things can take many  
names in your thinking. Writers of fiction are  
allowed to use synonyms for variation, but  
science should be precise: do not use multiple  
terms for the same thing in the final version of  
your paper. For example, it may be apparent to  
you that the thing you call "the weight matrix" is  
the same thing that was called "the correlation  
matrix" in the previous paragraph, but your  
reader will quickly get confused. 
 
 
86 
 
17 
TIPS FOR EDITING SENTENCES  
 
"Don't use big words. They mean so little." — Oscar Wilde  
 
fter you have completed your first pass and when  
you are happy with the overall shape of your  
paper, it is time to polish the words, sentences,  
and paragraphs. Once again, your overall goal should be  
simplicity, clarity, and readability. You can achieve this goal  
by cutting out everything that is not necessary. Condense  
and straighten your sentences so that they are short, to the  
point, and easy to follow. When editing your sentences, pay  
attention to the following:  
 Ensure that each sentence in a paragraph  
belongs to that paragraph: the first sentence  
defines the topic of the paragraph, and the rest  
stick to that topic, If a sentence goes off in a  
tangential direction, delete it or move it  
elsewhere; if the paragraph is long and its topic  
appears to change along the way, split the  
paragraph into two or more. 
 
 
87 
 
 Check that your sentences follow one another  
logically and that there are no jarring, abrupt  
changes in direction. Tie your sentences together  
with transitional words. Begin your sentences by  
addressing the words or concepts that finished  
the previous sentence, or use conjunctions  
(however, in addition, to the contrary, and so on).  
 Check sentence length; aim for short, precise  
sentences. Try to make every sentence shorter by  
rephrasing ideas using fewer words and by  
cutting out words that don't contribute anything.  
Those lazy words include repetitions and  
unnecessary adverbs and adjectives. Also look  
out for wordy expressions involving the passive  
voice or nominalisations of verbs (more on this in  
a moment). Rejoice with every word that you cut!  
If your sentence still feels too long after  
tightening, look for ways of splitting it. Long  
sentences are taxing to read because the reader  
has to hold a lot of words in her short-term  
memory. You don't need to count words to detect  
sentences that are too long—you can spot them  
visually (if a sentence spans several lines, it is too  
long) or, better, by reading your text aloud.  
Wherever you stumble or run out of breath, you  
have a problem.  
 Establish meaning early in the sentence, and  
keep your subject and verb close. If the first  
words explain who does what, it becomes easier  
to decipher the rest of the sentence. If the main  
point of the sentence is made clear from the  
outset, even wordy sentences can be  
comprehensible. But if the meaning of your 
 
 
88 
 
sentence is only unlocked by its 27th word, the  
long and winding road to get there will be  
littered with the remains of readers who have  
perished from sheer mental exhaustion.  
 Use active voice and avoid the passive (for  
exceptions to this rule, read on). There is a long  
tradition of using the passive voice in scientific  
literature, probably because the passive voice  
sounds more distanced and impersonal—it  
sounds more "academic". But because we usually  
write about abstract concepts in the first place,  
there is no need to make them any more abstract  
impersonal, or distant! So avoid the passive  
wherever you can. How to spot the passive when  
editing? Easy—if your sentence ends with the  
actor ("by X"), or if you can insert "by zombies"  
after the verb without violating grammar (this  
ingenious tip comes from Rebecca Johnson,  
https://twitter.com/johnsonr). For example, "to  
answer this question, simulations have been  
performed (BY ZOMBIES)" is clearly passive.  
Instead, just write "we have simulated".  
Whenever you spot a passive sentence, try to  
rephrase it and activate the verb. "X influences Y"  
is better and shorter than "Y is influenced by X"  
 Admittedly, there are times when the passive  
voice works better, Using the passive voice may  
be justified when the researcher wants to remove  
herself or other researchers from the picture.  
Common examples include "it has been  
experimentally confirmed that" or "it has been  
argued that" (especially if you disagree with the  
argument but do not want to name the culprits). 
 
 
89 
 
Also, if you want to stress whatever it is that is  
being acted upon—that is, the receiver (or  
victim) of action—use the passive voice. A phrase  
like "the climate is influenced by greenhouse  
gases" stresses the word "climate", whereas  
"greenhouse gases influence the climate"  
emphasises greenhouse gases.  
 Avoid nominalisations—turning verbs into  
nouns. Nominalisations take the life out of  
perfectly good verbs. What was once a happy,  
active verb is shrunk into a sad noun that just sits  
there, leaving you in need of a replacement verb.  
These are usually clunkier and duller, like "to  
carry out", "to perform", "to conduct", or plain  
"to be". As well as sounding like corporate speak,  
these verbs make your sentences longer than  
they need to be. When you happen to come  
across nominalisations in your draft, rescue and  
release the original verb from captivity and let it  
roam free again! Say "we compared" instead of  
"we performed a comparison", say "we  
examined" instead of "we conducted an  
examination", and say "we analysed" instead of  
"we carried out an analysis".  
 To spot a nominalised verb, look for nouns that  
have a captive verb inside. They often sound like  
French or Latin and end with "-ion", "-ment", or  
'-ence", For example, instead of saying "there is a  
difference between X and Y", you can save 21  
characters by writing "X differs from Y".  
 Avoid words that end in '-ive". These words tend  
to be adjectives with a verb inside, struggling to  
get out. Release the verb! Instead of saying that 
  
90 
 
"X is indicative of Y", simply say "X indicates  
that Y."  
 Comb your text for clunky expressions that  
would be simpler and shorter in plain English.  
For example, "because" is much more effective  
than "as a consequence of" or "due to the fact  
that". 'Although" works better than "despite the  
fact that." Don't say "for the purpose of" when  
you can simply say "to", or "for". "To" is often  
better than "in order to", For more examples, see  
http://plainenglish.co.uk/files/alternative.pdf.  
 Avoid using jargon and complicated words as a  
security blanket. Many people seem to think that  
writing sounds more academic and scientific if it  
is complicated and full of expressions that no  
one uses in everyday speech. This is wrong.  
Science is difficult enough as it is—do not make  
it any more complicated with your writing.  
Simple, easy-to-understand writing has  
authority. It is more difficult to trust a writer who  
hides her point behind a facade of long sentences  
and complicated words. Those words feel like  
smoke and mirrors, tricks to hide the absence of  
real depth.  
 Bonus tip: learn from the masters. Get "The  
Elements of Style" by Strunk & White, and do as  
the masters tell you. Your readers will thank you  
for it. 
 
 
91 
 
PART IV 
IT'S NOT OVER YET 
 
 
92 
 
 
 
93 
 
18 
HOW TO WRITE THE COVER LETTER  
 
"Brevity is the soul of wit." — William Shakespeare, Hamlet  
 
ow that you have revised and polished your draft,  
you are the happy owner of a shiny new  
manuscript. One more step remains before you  
can submit it to a journal: writing the cover letter.  
The cover letter is, in my view, something of a historical  
remnant, and having to write one is rather annoying. Let me  
explain.  
The purpose of the cover letter is to convince the editor  
that your manuscript is solid and important and that it fits  
their journal. But this is something that the abstract should  
do, especially if it is written in an accessible way. The paper  
itself should do the job, too. The introduction should  
contain all the information that the editor needs when  
deciding whether the paper falls within the journal's scope.  
The introduction should also reveal whether the results are  
believable and important enough for your paper to be sent  
to referees. So why repeat all this in a redundant letter?  
This appears to be quite a common view among my 
 
 
94 
 
colleagues. But the reality is that most journals still require  
cover letters, so, unfortunately, you'll have to write one. Here  
are some thoughts on how best to approach it.  
If I was a time-pressed editor, I would greatly appreciate  
a short, focused cover letter—say three to four paragraphs  
or a maximum of one page. If such a letter made it clear that  
the paper's topic fits the scope of my journal, that its results  
are in some way meaningful, and that the science looks  
solid enough to warrant more detailed scrutiny by the refer-  
ees, I would be a happy camper.  
Here are two ways to write a short cover letter with only  
a few paragraphs and less than a page of text.  
The better and slightly more adventurous approach  
follows the inverted-pyramid method that journalists often  
use for news stories. This may feel difficult at first because  
most scientists are not used to writing this way. When  
following the inverted pyramid, you should begin with the  
most important thing and then proceed towards less impor-  
tant things one by one and in order of decreasing impor-  
tance. Explain what you have found out in the very first  
sentence or two before outlining why your finding matters,  
and only then say something about how you obtained your  
results. Do not write a detailed explanation of your methods  
unless they are the key point of the paper: the editor is prob-  
ably too busy to care, and if not, the details can be found in  
your manuscript. This way of structuring the letter is partic-  
ularly suitable for those top-tier journals whose editors desk  
reject most of the papers that they receive—they do not  
have the patience to search for the main point if it is buried  
somewhere on page two of your letter. They want to hear it  
first and then decide.  
As a side note, the inverted-pyramid method should  
always be used for press releases; those are read by journal- 
 
 
95 
 
ists, not scientists, and journalists only get confused if they  
have to wade through lengthy introductory material before  
the main point arrives.  
The other, more traditional approach is to structure  
your cover letter in the same way as the abstract or the  
Introduction. That is, use the hourglass structure: begin  
with the broad context, and then narrow the scope down  
and proceed towards your specific research question. After  
stating the question, describe what you have found out and  
how and why what you have found out matters. But please  
be swift and move quickly: the first paragraph for context  
and question, the second paragraph for the key result, and  
the third paragraph for significance.  
You could also consider writing a hybrid version of the  
traditional cover letter and the inverted-pyramid story lede.  
First, state your key result in a single-sentence paragraph.  
Then follow the structure of the abstract by explaining the  
context and the question in the second paragraph before  
adding a more detailed description of the result in the third  
paragraph and an account of its significance in the fourth.  
Whichever method you choose, put emphasis on the  
implications and impact of your results. The why-does-it-  
matter part matters more than the how-did-we-do-it part,  
even if you have used particularly inventive methods. Do  
not exaggerate the significance of your results—just be  
honest and explain what your work means. Whenever you  
feel like typing the word "very", take a deep breath,  
command your fingers to stop, and jump directly to the  
next word.  
Your cover letter may serve purposes beyond the avoid-  
ance of desk rejection. You may also have to state that the  
manuscript is not under consideration anywhere else or  
provide similar information. More often than not, there are 
 
 
96 
 
separate entry fields for such things in journals' online  
submission systems, so you don't usually have to bother  
with them when writing the letter.  
You may also need to suggest referees, either in the letter  
or in the online submission system. This is an important  
choice. The best advice I can give on selecting referees is  
that you should choose nice people who know about your  
field—but this is easier said than done. My editor colleagues  
tell me that the referees suggested by the authors are often  
no friendlier than the rest—in fact, they're often the oppo-  
site. So choose wisely, and if possible ask your most senior  
co-author for advice.  
To summarise: if you have to write a cover letter, keep it  
simple, keep it short, put important stuff first, and explain  
why your work matters. 
 
 
97 
 
19 
HOW TO DEAL WITH REVIEWS  
 
"...the paper strikes me as trivial and as an addition in the  
endless series of thrusts beyond unsettled frontiers." — An  
anonymous referee for The Strength of Weak Ties by M.  
Granovetter, now a classic with over 50,000 citations  
 
everal weeks or months after letting your paper out  
of your hands and into the cold and hostile world of  
scientific publishing, the dreaded moment of judg-  
ment finally arrives—if you haven't been desk rejected by  
the editor within a few days, that is. There is a letter from  
the editor in your inbox, either rejecting your manuscript  
outright or requesting that you revise it to give it a second  
chance. This statement is followed by detailed referee  
comments that may or may not make sense to you (or  
anyone else, for that matter). In theory, it is also possible to  
have the paper accepted as it is, but this is very rare: it has  
happened only once or twice during my career. It is safe to  
assume that there is more work to do now and that you have  
to get back to your paper. This has often felt inexplicably  
painful because the submitted paper has already been 
 
 
98 
 
neatly wrapped up and archived in my mind. I've gone on to  
think of other things, only to be told that wrapping has to be  
torn open—what a pain.  
When receiving the letter, my suggestion would be to  
first take a few deep breaths and to try to calm yourself. This  
gets easier after dealing with tens of rejections and criti- 
cisms, but it never gets easy. That moment of realising that  
someone is critical of your work is difficult, especially for  
PhD students to whom a manuscript may represent 100 per  
cent or 50 per cent of their publication record.  
What often happens at this stage is that you rush  
directly to the referee comments and read through them at  
top speed. This is because you want to know RIGHT AWAY  
what it is that the referees think is wrong with your beau-  
tiful work. And because you speed through the comments,  
you only see the surface and only pick up words that criti-  
cise your work. Your view is then distorted.  
Next, being a human, you get all emotional: angry,  
embarrassed, frustrated, depressed, or any linear combina-  
tion of these. You may feel that your work is worthless and  
therefore that you are worthless. Please don't worry—  
feeling like this is as normal as it gets. We have all felt like  
this. This is what a career in science is about. Those who  
learn to persist and deal with these emotions are the ones  
who survive. It will get easier, and part of why it gets easier  
is that you learn that the process of peer-review can be  
highly random and the referees can be wrong. But often  
they are not, and you can learn from their criticism and use  
it to improve your work.  
When faced with a letter from the editor where referees  
criticise your work, my recommendation is to take a few  
more deep breaths, calm down, and maybe do something  
else for a while. If the reviewers are very critical, your fight- 
 
 
99 
 
or-flight-response prevents you from seeing what is really  
being said and what the really important problems are, and  
from assessing how difficult it would be to fix them in a  
revised version. So, get some distance first. Breathe, get a  
cup of coffee, look at a video of kittens playing, and only  
then read the letter again—this time more slowly and  
analytically.  
First, focus on what the editor says because this is the  
most important thing of all. As an example, my colleagues  
and I successfully had an article published after the referee  
hated the paper and asked for a total rewrite from a  
different and quite alien perspective. This rewrite would  
have been impossible for us to do, but the editor seemed to  
like the paper and told us that only a few minor things  
needed to be done. These two requests were completely at  
odds with each other, but we chose to listen to the editor  
instead of the referee (although we picked some of the refer-  
ee's points and cosmetically revised a few sentences, just in  
case). The paper was immediately accepted after resub-  
mission.  
So, always listen to the editor! If the editor encourages  
you to submit a revised version, do it—she is already on  
your side. If the editor uses less encouraging words like  
"should you wish to resubmit a revised version", do it  
anyway because even in this case the door is still open.  
Sometimes what you receive from the editor is a stan-  
dard, copy-pasted response in which the editor takes no  
stance but leaves you to deal with the referees, In this case,  
just move on to the referees' comments. But if there is  
anything in the editor's words that you can use, be sure to  
do so.  
Next, read through the referee comments carefully and  
with an analytical mind. Start by looking at the science and 
 
 
100 
 
stay positive: did the referees spot any obvious flaws in your  
work? If so, great, now you can fix those flaws! Did they  
misunderstand your results? If so, great, this shows that you  
need to be clearer in your writing (although referees do  
sometimes miss explanations that are right there in the  
manuscript). Do your referees require some extra experi-  
ments or calculations to back up your conclusion? Do these  
make sense? If so, great, they will make your paper more  
solid and you should do them, even if this takes time.  
After you have gleaned useful and actionable informa-  
tion from the referee comments, have a look at what is left.  
There may be comments that you don't understand,  
comments that you understand but know are wrong, and all  
kinds of other weird debris. The worst comments often read  
something like "I am sure that I have seen a similar result  
somewhere but cannot be bothered to find a reference". But  
before you react to comments like these, take off your scien-  
tist hat for a while and put on your psychologist hat (don't  
have one? Get one—they are tremendously useful). It pays  
to remember that referees are human and humans are not  
analytical machines; they have feelings. Your referees have  
feelings too. Figure out how they feel and what to do  
about it.  
Try to see the world through the eyes of the referees.  
Read the negative comments again, and try to understand  
what the referees think, feel, and expect from you. Do they  
feel irritated? Left out? Bored? Insecure and needing to  
bolster their confidence? Confused? Just plain cranky?  
The key to getting your revised paper accepted is to  
understand what makes the referees happy and then to give  
them this (while maintaining your scientific integrity, of  
course).  
One way of making the referees happy is to always 
 
 
101 
 
acknowledge that they have been heard, whatever it is that  
they say. Never treat a referee with disrespect, even when  
what they propose is wrong or when they have misunder-  
stood things because they obviously didn't bother to read  
your manuscript carefully enough. Always give them  
something.  
If the referee misunderstood something that is obvious,  
write another sentence about the obvious issue and insert it  
somewhere. Thank the referee for pointing out that your  
paper was not clear enough on the issue, and tell her that  
you have now added a clarifying sentence. If the referee's  
comment or question is so confused that you can't even  
figure out what it is that the referee wants from you, do  
something about it anyway. Pick some sentence or para-  
graph that might be related to whatever is confusing the  
referee. Then rewrite it: try to make it clearer, or at least  
rearrange the words. Then answer the referee politely: tell  
them that, to the best of your understanding, her problem  
was probably related to the issue discussed in this sentence  
or paragraph and that you have now tried to make it clear.  
At times, the referee will be confused enough not to know  
herself what the original issue was, and will gladly accept  
this act of repentance from you.  
The above does not mean that you should always do  
what the referee tells you to do. If the referee asks you to do  
something that you feel is wrong or doesn't make sense,  
don't do it. You should, however, present a detailed counter-  
argument in the rebuttal letter. But, if at all possible, change  
something in the text—however small—so that the referee  
will feel that she has been heard.  
Referees commonly come up with speculative ideas.  
While this can be genuinely helpful, it can also be a  
nuisance if those ideas are tangential to what you are doing. 
 
 
102 
 
If the referee asks you to do something that sounds sensible  
but is clearly outside the scope of your paper, thank the  
referee and insert a sentence into your Discussion section  
where you mention that it would be useful to do that in the  
future.  
It may be that the referee is both hostile and wrong: you  
know that your results hold, but the referee does not believe  
you and does not want to believe you. In this case, you must  
take a stand and defend your results. Be constructive and  
respectful. Why does the referee act this way? If it is because  
the referee wants more evidence, apologise for the lack of  
evidence and provide more (even if there was enough  
already). If it is because the referee feels left out (often indi-  
cated by requests to cite some of her own work), you can  
give her credit for some earlier work in the introduction or  
discussion, but you should not cite papers only because you  
are forced to do so.  
There may even be more nefarious reasons for referee  
hostility, such as the referee trying to block competition.  
That may be hard to detect or disentangle from general  
grumpiness (perhaps the referee just had low blood glucose  
levels, you never know), but if you do suspect something like  
a blocking attempt, be polite but firm in your responses—  
remember that they are also meant for the editor's eyes. If  
someone has decided to block your work then you won't be  
able to turn that person's head, but the editor might be able  
to spot what is happening. And if a referee is clearly being  
unethical, you should confidentially let the editor know  
about this.  
However, more often than not, your referees are not  
nasty for the sake of it. If you treat them with respect, make  
sure that they feel they have been heard, and if you always  
give them something, then they will be happy and they will 
 
 
103 
 
accept your paper more willingly. And if not, there are  
always other journals. 
In a nutshell, when you receive the dreaded letter from  
the editor with referee comments, do the following:  
1) Breathe. Relax. Get a cup of coffee.  
2) Read the editor's comments. Figure out if there is  
anything useful in there and do whatever the editor wants 
from you.  
3) Read the referee comments slowly and analytically, 
first focusing on those that are useful: fixing flaws, carrying  
out extra experiments, backing up your claims with more  
conclusive evidence, being clearer.  
4) Read the rest of the referee comments with your  
psychologist hat on. What would make the referees happy?  
5) Fix flaws, carry out new experiments. Revise your  
paper accordingly. For every referee comment, change  
something in the manuscript.  
6) Write a rebuttal letter, thanking the editor and the  
referees for their comments. Respond politely and in detail  
to every comment, even the silly ones; if the referees are  
confused, act as if this was your fault. Tell them what you  
have changed in response to their comment (this can be just  
a single sentence).  
7) Make sure that the editor's concerns are explicitly  
addressed in your rebuttal letter.  
8) Make sure that each and every referee comment is  
addressed in detail, including requests that you chose not to  
fulfil. Unlike the cover letter, the rebuttal letter does not  
need to be short, The longer and more detailed, the better.  
9) Resubmit the paper and the rebuttal letter. Keep your  
fingers crossed. 
 
 
104 
 
SUMMARY  
 
or quick reference, here are the steps of the method  
introduced in this book.  
 
I: Develop the story of the paper  
 
1. Choose your key point and main conclusion. Pick the  
single most important result that you have. Condense it into  
one or two sentences.  
 
2. Choose what else goes in. Keep only those results that  
support your key result or illustrate its significance. Cate-  
gorise the results according to their role. Leave the rest out  
or tuck them in the Supplementary Information document.  
 
3. Write the abstract first. Follow the hourglass format:  
broad context, narrower context, exact research question,  
your solution, implications of your result on your (sub)field,  
implications of your result in a broader context.  
 
4. Draft the title of the manuscript. Short titles work  
better; make sure that the title conveys the point of your  
paper and aligns seamlessly with your abstract.  
 
II: Outline the paper  
 
5. Sketch the outline of your paper. Choose the order of  
presentation for your results. Choose your figures and write 
 
 
105 
 
first versions of figure captions. For each section (Introduc-  
tion, Methods, Results, Discussion), write down the main  
points and plan their order of appearance.  
6. sketch the paragraphs of your paper. Follow your  
outline and transform it into paragraph-sized blocks, so that  
paragraph makes one point only. Write down the  
point of each paragraph, together with bullet points for the  
paragraph's contents; you may already want to sketch the  
key sentences of the paragraph too. List references if they  
already come to mind.  
III: Write and revise your draft  
7. Quickly complete your paragraphs and write a first  
rough draft. Stick to the point with each paragraph. Make  
sure that the first sentence of the paragraph explains what  
the paragraph is about. Make sure that each sentence leads  
to the next. Make sure that each paragraph leads to the next.  
8. Revise your first draft for structure and content. Make  
sure that the paper is focused and readable, that there is  
enough context and background, and that the story is about  
an important question that your results answer.  
9. Revise your first draft focusing on sentences and  
words. Make sure that each sentence is logical and that its  
meaning becomes apparent early on. Keep the subject and  
verb close, Use the stress positions at the ends of sentences.  
Write in the active voice. Split long sentences. Remove  
superfluous words. Avoid turning verbs into nouns.  
10. Do several rounds of revisions. Focus on clarity, read-  
ability, and a good story. Edit jointly with co-authors, Ask for  
comments from your supervisor and your colleagues. Use  
test readers for identifying hard-to-spot problems.  
IV: Submit and deal with reviews  
11. Write a cover letter if you have to. Make it short and  
to-the-point. 
 
 
106 
 
 
12. Submit your paper and wait for referee comments.  
 
13. When the referee comments arrive, take a deep  
breath; if you get an emotional reaction, wait until you are  
calmer. Try to gauge what the editor wants from you and  
how to make the referees happy. Revise your paper. Write a  
long, detailed rebuttal letter and resubmit. 
 
 
107 
 
AFTERWORD  
 
"The pen is mightier than the sword if the sword is very short,  
and the pen is very sharp." — Terry Pratchett 
 
"If you don't have time to read, you don't have the time (or the  
tools) to write. Simple as that. "— Stephen King  
 
Thank you for reading this book; I hope it was helpful.  
 
Whatever stage you are at in your career as a scientist,  
writing is a craft that is worth putting some effort into. It is  
also a craft that anyone can learn. While some seem to have  
a head start through natural talent, each and every one of us  
can learn to write. You just need to decide to learn, and then  
to put in the hours.  
 
At the beginning of my scientific career, I sort of enjoyed  
writing but found it very difficult: there seemed to be all  
these unstated rules and fancy words that you had to know  
and use to make your writing sound "academic". There were  
no books or learning materials, and there was no online  
guidance. I remember taking a course in "Technical 
 
 
108 
 
English" that in the end was focused on writing technical  
manuals. That was pretty much it. Because of this, I had to  
learn by imitation, by reading papers and attempting to  
mimic their style. I learned things I had to unlearn later—I  
wouldn't dare look at my earliest papers now. I certainly  
didn't live as I teach.  
The first book on scientific writing that I came across a  
few years back was Joshua Schimel's Writing Science.  
Reading the book was a revelation. I was already a professor  
in charge of supervising many graduate students, who all  
struggled with writing, just as all of us scientists do. I found  
it hard to help my students to improve their writing because  
I didn't have a system myself—I just winged it, so to speak.  
Schimel's book opened my eyes: there are formulas,  
systems, and rules that make writing easier. And papers can  
be stories!  
If, after reading this book, you want to continue your  
journey towards writing focused, readable, and brilliant  
papers, my suggestion is to have a look at Schimel's book. I  
would also recommend The Elements of Style by Strunk &  
White and On Writing Well by William Zinsser. You should  
also read a lot of scientific papers—critically and analyti-  
cally. How do great papers structure their narratives? Why  
are some papers easy to follow? Why are some papers  
impossible to grasp (hint: it's not you, it's them)? Read and  
study papers, and analyse what works, what doesn't,  
and why.  
Then do a lot of good science, sharpen your pen (or  
configure your Emacs), write, rewrite, and rewrite  
some more. 
  
Jari Saramäki, Espoo, Finland, October 2018 
 
 
109 
 
P.S. Can I ask for a favour? I'd really appreciate a short  
review on Amazon—reviews help new readers find  
this book! 
 
 
110 
 
 
 
 
111 
 
ABOUT THE AUTHOR 
 
I am a professor of computational science who works on  
complex systems and networks. I have authored or co-  
authored close to 100 papers—most of them have been  
written together with PhD students (and some while I was  
one myself). These papers have been cited close to 9,000  
times, according to Google Scholar. I work at the Depart-  
ment of Computer Science at Aalto University, Finland. For  
more, follow my blog at http://jarisaramaki.fi. 
 
 
112 
 
Made in the USA  
Columbia, SC  
09 July 2021  
41621754R00074 
 
