THE ART OF WRITING 
A PHD PROPOSAL
A flying start for students and their supervisors 
in the transition from MA to PhD
Hans Sonneveld
The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
The Art of Writing a PhD 
Proposal
A flying start for students and supervisors in 
the transition from MA to PhD
Hans Sonneveld
Open University Press
McGraw Hill 
Unit 4,
Foundation Park
Roxborough Way
Maidenhead
SL6 3UD
email: emea_uk_ireland@mheducation.com
world wide web: www.openup.co.uk
First edition published 2022
Copyright © Open International Publishing Limited, 2022
All rights reserved. Except for the quotation of short passages for the purposes of 
criticism and review, no part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a 
retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, 
photocopying, recording or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the 
publisher or a licence from the Copyright Licensing Agency Limited. Details of such 
licences (for reprographic reproduction) may be obtained from the Copyright 
­Licensing Agency Ltd of Saffron House, 6–10 Kirby Street, London EC1N 8TS.
A catalogue record of this book is available from the British Library
ISBN-13: 9780335251568
ISBN-10: 0335251560
eISBN: 9780335251575
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
CIP data applied for
Typeset by Transforma Pvt. Ltd., Chennai, India
Fictitious names of companies, products, people, characters and/or data that may be 
used herein (in case studies or in examples) are not intended to represent any real 
individual, company, product or event. 
“Doctoral proposals are an often-hidden part of the research process, 
but, as this comprehensive book proves, a strong proposal can make a 
meaningful contribution to timely completion. Clearly written and 
based on solid research, this compassionate and practical book is a 
must for research developers and supervisors. The appendixes will 
also be useful to anyone about to write their own proposal, especially 
if their university does not offer sufficient support.”
Dr Katherine Firth, The University of Melbourne, Australia,
author of How to Fix your Academic Writing Trouble:
A Practical Guide and Your PhD Survival Guide:
Planning, Writing and Succeeding in your Final Year
“This informative and interesting book ends where most others, giving 
academic advice to potential PhD students, begin. Sonneveld describes 
in detail the concept of a Proposal Laboratory. This is an extended 
Workshop for producing an acceptable, high level Research Proposal. 
Help in writing the Proposal, which will determine whether an appli­
cant is accepted to continue to registration for a research degree, is a 
much needed addition to this field. Based on years of experience and 
research he illustrates with clear diagrams and tables the developing 
process through which the participants must pass. Supervisors and 
decision makers will find it exciting to discover new areas for guiding 
hopeful research candidates on their journey.”
Dr Estelle M Phillips, Co-author How to Get a PhD,
Former Research Tutor Birkbeck College, University of London,
UK and Independent Educational Consultant
“Embarking on a PhD trajectory is one of those things you normally do 
once in a lifetime, so for most it is uncharted territory. Therefore this 
book by Hans Sonneveld is very timely and useful to all who aspire to 
gain the title of Doctor (of Philosophy), but also for (potential) super­
visors who want to guide their PhD candidates, individually or in a 
network, towards a top-notch but doable PhD project.”
Dr Paul M. van Dijk, Director, Twente Graduate School,
University of Twente, Netherlands
“Universities are concerned about delays and low completion rates in 
doctoral studies. But too often, insufficient attention is paid to the ini­
tial phase, when candidates struggle to develop a solid research pro­
posal. Hans Sonneveld’s book The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal  fills 
a neglected gap in the literature. Step by step, he reveals how we can 
Praise page
implement the idea of the Proposal Lab to professionally support our 
doctoral candidates in this challenging endeavour. Together with the 
rich material in the appendices and the tips for further reading, this 
makes his book a valuable resource for doctoral school leaders, super­
visors, professionals and doctoral candidates alike. He states that 
“learning how to plan a proposal and then conduct dissertation research 
will change the life of doctoral candidates.” If we apply his approach, 
we can contribute to this change.”
Lucas Zinner, Head of Research Services and Career Development,
University of Vienna, Austria, Chair of the Board of the Association
of Professionals in Doctoral Education (PRIDE)
“A welcome resource which will resonate with new and experienced 
PhD supervisors alike. This book, based on a well-established taught 
course, has the strength of tried and tested teaching methods and 
subject content. I especially appreciate the concept of a process, which 
clearly focusses on the journey as well as the end product. I also, 
particularly like the practical nature of the book, along with the clear 
theoretical underpinnings, which, I feel, enables supervisors to clearly 
guide their students through the proposal stage. Overall, this is a 
welcome addition to the research literature, available.”
Dr Mary Knight, Honorary Senior Lecturer (Education),
University of Dundee, UK
“Writing a good proposal is key to PhD success. The Art of Writing a PhD 
Proposal provides an indispensable guide to this important, and often 
neglected, part of the PhD process. For students, it gives a practical, 
step-by-step plan for creating a proposal that will be both convincing to 
supervisors, and helpful in planning the PhD journey. For universities, 
it explains how to run ‘Proposal Lab’ sessions to engage students 
actively in devising and planning high-quality research. A wealth of 
material, such as questionnaires and workshop handouts, is included, 
which will be useful to PhD course directors around the world.”
Dr Colin Johnson, University of Nottingham, UK,
co-author of the 7th edition of How to Get a PhD
Preface
x
Personal background
x
Early attrition and serious delay
x
Proposal secrets
xii
The Proposal Lab and this handbook
xiii
Roadmap for the reader
xiii
Acknowledgements
xv
	
1	
SUPPORTING OUR STUDENTS AND EARLY PHD CANDIDATES ON 
THE WAY TO A PHD PROPOSAL
1
1 Introduction
1
2 Organizing the support of (potential) PhD candidates
2
	
2	
THE PROPOSAL LAB PRINCIPLES
12
1 Introduction
12
2 Some didactic considerations
17
3 Proposal Lab objectives
22
4 Admission to the programme
23
5 The prospectus, the journey, and the calendar
25
6 The literature
30
	
3	
THE JOURNEY TO THE PHD PROPOSAL: THE STUDENTS’ PERSPECTIVE 31
1 Introduction: roadmap for the readers
31
2 Different paths lead to a PhD proposal
33
3 The map: an overview of the journey to the proposal
36
4 The basics of our journey
36
5 Our guides: the supervisors and the Proposal Lab conveners
46
6 The preconditions
53
7 The stages
54
8 Anticipating problems and concerns
70
9 What we will know at the end of the proposal journey
78
	
4	
THE PROPOSAL LAB SESSIONS AND FEEDBACK MEETINGS
80
1 Session 1: in search of our research topic
80
2 The first individual feedback meeting: getting a feeling for your 
student’s qualities and interests
86
3 Session 2: meeting and interviewing researchers and 
planning the proposal
93
4 Session 3: the PhD proposal
100
5 Session 4: searching for the important literature
106
6 Session 5: the literature review
114
Contents
viii  Contents
7 The second individual feedback meeting: the well-reasoned 
topic choice
119
8 Session 6: from topic to questions
121
9 Session 7: theory, hypothesis and claim
124
10 Session 8: the research design
128
11 The third individual feedback meeting: the Proposal Halfway
134
	
5	
WHAT WE WILL KNOW AFTER COMPLETION OF THE PROPOSAL LAB
135
1 Different types of proposal writers
135
2 Predicting underperforming in proposal writing: is it possible?
136
APPENDICES
143
	
	
APPENDIX A. THE WRITING OF A PROPOSAL AND BEING A PHD 
CANDIDATE: LITERATURE TIPS FOR TEACHERS, SUPERVISORS, 
STUDENTS AND PHD CANDIDATES
145
	
	
APPENDIX B. EXAMPLE OF A PROPOSAL LAB PROSPECTUS
148
1 Overview of Proposal Lab objectives
148
2 Lab objectives in detail
149
3 Lab requirements
149
4 Extract of a literature review, based on at least five texts
152
5 Research question and embedding report
152
6 Interview report
153
7 Literature search report
153
8 Evaluation criteria for Proposal Halfway and Final Proposal
153
	
	
APPENDIX C. EXAMPLE OF A PROPOSAL LAB SCHEDULE 
(SEPTEMBER–JUNE)
154
	
	
APPENDIX D. THE SNAPSHOT: STUDENTS’ INFORMATION ABOUT 
RESEARCH INTERESTS
160
Research interest and topic(s) under consideration (max. 1000 
words in total)
160
	
	
APPENDIX E. THE ROUGH TOPIC EXPLORATION: IN-CLASS 
ASSIGNMENT, SESSION 1
163
The Rough Topic Exploration Matrix, in-class assignment
163
	
	
APPENDIX F. PLANNING THE WELL-REASONED TOPIC CHOICE AND 
PROPOSAL DESIGN: IN-CLASS ASSIGNMENT, SESSION 2
165
	
	
APPENDIX G. PROPOSAL INFORMATION AND TIPS: SESSION 3
169
1 Writing the proposal abstract
169
2 Rubrics for evaluating the proposal qualities
170
3 Criteria for evaluating research questions
175
Contents  ix
	
	
APPENDIX H. A WELL-REASONED TOPIC CHOICE: GUIDELINES FOR 
STUDENTS AND PHD CANDIDATES
177
	
	
APPENDIX I. INSTRUCTIONS IN FORM FORMAT FOR WRITING THE 
PROPOSAL HALFWAY
179
1 Give a brief description of your project
179
2 The research question
180
3 The innovative character of the proposed project
181
4 Considerations regarding theory and prior research
182
5 Proposition, hypotheses and concepts
182
6 The data and methods
183
7 Additional information
183
	
	
APPENDIX J. THE DISCIPLINARY EMBEDDING ASSIGNMENT, 
SESSION 4 AND SESSION 5
184
Disciplinary embedding: area/theme/subject/essential others
184
	
	
APPENDIX K. THE QUESTION PRACTICUM: SESSION 6
186
Checklist for the elaboration into sub-questions
188
	
	
APPENDIX L. EVALUATING INDIVIDUAL RESEARCH TRAINING 
ASSIGNMENTS
189
1 Evaluation of interview reports
189
2 Evaluation of the literature search report
190
3 Evaluation of the critical appraisals
191
4 The evaluation of a literature review
193
	
	
APPENDIX M. SWOT ANALYSIS BY CANDIDATES ALREADY 
HALFWAY TO A PROPOSAL (THE CLINIC)
195
	
	
APPENDIX N. EXPECTATIONS IN VIEW OF A 4 YEAR 
PHD PROJECT
196
	
	
APPENDIX O. PLANNING MATRIX PHD TRAJECTORY: RESEARCH 
AND OTHER ACTIVITIES
201
	
	
APPENDIX P. AT THE END OF THE PROPOSAL JOURNEY: SWOT 
ANALYSIS IN VIEW OF A (FUTURE) PHD PROJECT
204
	
	
APPENDIX Q. TRAINING AND SUPERVISION PLAN
206
Bibliography
211
Index
214
Personal background
The world of doctoral programmes has fascinated me for years. I was director of 
a Dutch graduate school and during those 18 years I also obtained my doctoral 
degree based on a study entitled ‘Supervisors, PhD candidates and the academic 
selection’ (Sonneveld, 1997). I studied, among other things, the big problems of 
dropout and delay. Years later, I picked up those themes again in research into 
PhD candidates who faced extreme delay and candidates whose dissertation was 
initially rejected. An overarching theme in all my work has always been the insuf­
ficient support in the transition to the next phase of study and the tacit assump­
tion that our candidates already had the required qualities and skills.
My focus slowly shifted to preventing these problems. I evaluated the super­
vision and working conditions of PhD candidates at several universities. The 
next, logical step was to provide support programmes for supervisors and PhD 
candidates. The result of this was the publication of several guides for PhD 
supervisors and the organization of workshops on specific themes for PhD can­
didates. Prevention in ultima forma took the form of a programme that I pro­
vided for five years for Master’s students who were preparing a PhD project: 
the Proposal Lab. The handbook before you makes this approach accessible to 
students preparing for PhD research, their PhD supervisors and programme 
directors seeking answers to the issues of: (1) early attrition; (2) serious delay; 
(3) the embedding of doctoral candidates who move from another location to 
new surroundings; and (4) well-thought-out decisions about whether to start a 
doctoral trajectory.
Early attrition and serious delay
Attrition, serious delay, and insufficient preparation for a doctoral project are 
global phenomena. British research reports on the major problem of the early 
departure of PhD candidates who have just started their PhD research. This 
affects 16.2 per cent (4.224) of the PhD candidates who started their PhD 
research between 2006 and 2017! The study states:
There are many reasons why a student may decide to leave a programme 
early …. The individual may no longer believe undertaking a PhD is for them 
… [or] may face unforeseen problems beyond their control, such as poor 
health, bereavement, or family difficulties, preventing them from completing 
their research.
(DiscoverPhDs, 2021)
Preface
Preface  xi
Remarkably, these authors do not mention the reasons that take the form of 
poor preparation for a PhD programme, an unprofessional admission proce­
dure, and insufficient supervision and support during the development of a 
PhD proposal.
This disregard is consistent with the problem raised by Bowen and Rudens­
tine and Lovitts in the USA who studied the enormous premature outflow from 
American PhD programmes:
Data on attrition prior to the start of the second year show a … pattern over 
time, with roughly 25 percent of entering students at larger programmes 
failing to return for the second year and … 10 to 15 percent of students in 
smaller programmes leaving at this stage.
(Bowen and Rudenstine, 1992: 252)
They point to a structural shortcoming in the preparation of aspiring PhD can­
didates or early-stage PhD candidates for the transition to conducting indepen­
dent research:
There is too little emphasis during the first two years on helping students to 
understand what it means to do independent research ... They are taught to 
be analytic and critical without necessarily acquiring the habits of mind and 
training to undertake more constructive and fruitful research and writing.
(ibid.: 254)
Almost ten years later, Lovitts puts it this way:
The first task in the research stage [of a PhD] involves finding a research 
question or thesis topic … No Director of Graduate Study or faculty member 
mentioned helping students understand how to conduct thesis research. 
Their silence on this issue suggests they assume that students know how to 
proceed.
(2001: 73)
A special case is the Dutch situation. Some 56 per cent of scientific research is 
financed by the Dutch Research Council (24 per cent) or third parties (32 per 
cent). This means that most PhD candidates in the Netherlands start their PhD 
research based on a plan not written by them and usually developed at least 
one year previously. They must update the project design and assess it qualita­
tively. This means that they must appropriate the proposed project.
An important characteristic of doing a PhD in the Netherlands is also that 40 
per cent of PhD candidates come from abroad. Here the issue of the transition 
to a different academic culture plays a vital role. They often arrive with their 
own rudimentary research plan that sufficed as an entrance ticket but will cer­
tainly have to be developed further.
The greatest completion rate damage is incurred in the Netherlands due to 
the delay in completing the theses. Only 10 per cent of PhD candidates in the 
xii  Preface
Netherlands obtain their PhD within 4 years. On average, dissertation projects 
take 10 months longer than planned. I undertook research into the problem of 
the long PhD duration in a specific faculty. What was the result? At the end 
of the second year, it was already clear that the dissertation would not be ready 
on time, but no hard measures were taken, neither by the candidate nor the 
supervisors. Delayed decisions on essential parts of the dissertation, such as 
the leading research question and the theoretical framework, played a key role. 
There was also a lack of structuring of the research. It was striking that there 
was no question of an unhappy relationship with the supervisor. However, in 
the opinion of the PhD candidates, the supervisors should have taken on the 
role of coach and process supervisor much more thoroughly. This situation 
was an important reason for the faculty in question to start preparing the PhD 
research in the Master’s programme via the Proposal Lab (Sonneveld, 2015).
Proposal secrets
There is not a single book about the art of teaching and guiding young research­
ers who want to write a PhD proposal. Yes, we do have books about the charac­
teristics of a research proposal and books with tips and tricks for PhD 
candidates who are facing that challenge. Aspiring PhD candidates are always 
advised: prepare a PhD proposal, but it is never explained which path will lead 
to that proposal. Books on supervision and teaching in preparatory studies 
consider a one-page information sheet on the components of a proposal to be 
sufficient. For the rest, dear students, and supervisors, find out for yourself!
For example, in Effective Postgraduate Supervision by Eley and Jennings 
(2005) the proposal does not even appear at all. The same goes for Mastering 
Your PhD, by Gosling and Noordam (2006), written for PhD candidates, but not 
paying any attention to the proposal.
It is quite different in the case of Brewer’s (2007) Your PhD Thesis and 
Punch’s (2016) Developing Effective Research Proposals. An entire chapter 
and a complete book respectively are devoted to the Research Proposal, how­
ever, but still without suggesting a plan for how to get from a vague research 
interest to a detailed proposal with which one can apply for a PhD position or 
successfully complete the first stage of the PhD trajectory.
For me, the work of Barbara Lovitts is crucial. In 2007, Barbara Lovitts pub­
lished her outstanding text, Making the Implicit Explicit: Creating Perfor­
mance Expectations for the Thesis. Her book is about making explicit to 
students the tacit ‘rules’ for the assessment of the final of all educational prod­
ucts: the thesis, and its starting point, the proposal. The purpose of defining 
performance expectations is to make them transparent to graduate students 
while they are in the research and writing phases, and thus help them achieve 
higher levels of accomplishment. Analogous to this approach, this handbook 
therefore hopefully fills a gap that is present in the existing supervision litera­
ture by making the proposal requirements and the path to a proposal more 
explicit.
Preface  xiii
The Proposal Lab and this handbook
This handbook is based on a programme that I ran with colleagues for five 
years for Dutch and Belgian Research Master’s students at Tilburg University. 
It was part of a major change in the organization of Dutch university education. 
In addition to the regular Master’s programmes, Research Master’s programmes 
were created in numerous places in which students were specially prepared for 
a research career. A programme aimed at developing a research proposal is a 
core component. An important goal is to improve the transition from the exist­
ing course programmes to a new phase in which initiative and independence 
are central to the students. In this preliminary stage of a PhD training, students 
can discover whether preparing a long-term research project is really some­
thing for them. For the supervisors and graduate schools, this means that they 
have seen students working on a research plan for several months and that it is 
possible to make a well-considered judgement on whether the student will be 
admitted to the PhD track and who can best function as the primary supervisor.
The main aim of this handbook is to clarify how to support (potential) PhD 
candidates in making decisions about a research topic and how to teach them 
the secrets of a great research proposal, within a well-planned time schedule.
This book follows the structure of a travel guide. It starts with the explora­
tion of possible topics, the move from topics to questions, the positioning of 
oneself in a specific field of research, exploring supervision possibilities and 
ends with the proud presentation of a doable PhD research project.
The Proposal Lab is designed to provide faculty guidance and peer support 
for the development of (1) an elaborated research proposal as a stand-alone 
exercise, or (2) the basic material for an application for a PhD position or a 
research position outside academia. Parallel to the Proposal Lab, students will 
engage in intensive co-operation with members of the faculty, research group 
or graduate school who are experts on their topic. The Proposal Lab is not a 
substitute for specialized training in particular disciplinary topics, which may 
be expected from teachers in domain courses and potential future supervisors.
Roadmap for the reader
This book has six main components. In Chapter 1, I indicate that there can be 
several paths that can lead to a PhD proposal. The most important distinction 
is that between individual guidance by a supervisor and a workshop or commu­
nity of practice-like setting, which I refer to in this book as the Proposal Lab. 
This chapter is primarily aimed at the supervisors, those who are responsible 
for setting up the PhD trajectory and in particular the programme teams who 
want to develop taught elements in the programme.
Chapter 2 focuses on the Proposal Lab Principles. I outline the background 
of the programme, the goals, the didactic foundations, the qualities that stu­
dents are bringing and the structure of the lab. This chapter is primarily aimed 
xiv  Preface
at colleagues supervising a Proposal Lab and programme developers consider­
ing introducing such a community of practice. If students are considering a 
PhD programme that includes a Proposal Lab-like programme, this chapter 
offers them tools to get a grip on its quality.
In Chapter 3, I describe the journey to a proposal as a travel guide from the 
students’ and candidates’ perspective. I inform the travellers about the best 
preparation, the stages, the must-see attractions, the composition of the travel 
group and any complications that may arise. Although the emphasis in this 
handbook is on the Proposal Lab, we broaden the perspective here. In the first 
place, this chapter is intended for both students and early PhD candidates pre­
paring a proposal within the context of a Proposal Lab or community of prac­
tice, as well as candidates who do this on their own with the support of a 
supervisor. Supervisors can take note of the advice that advanced PhD stu­
dents give to the beginners, and the advice of supervisors to colleagues who 
are supervising proposal writers.
In Chapter 4, I outline the sessions of the Proposal Lab, consisting of eight 
sessions and three individual feedback meetings. For each session, the readers 
will find a script, the most important substantive suggestions, assignments, and 
instruments with which the PhD candidates can get started. This chapter is 
written from the perspective of the Proposal Lab convener. In terms of content, 
it is also of direct importance for the participants in the Lab, individual stu­
dents, and PhD candidates who are preparing a PhD proposal, and their super­
visors.
Chapter 5 discusses the results of this Proposal Lab. What do students and 
supervisors learn about the enthusiasm and suitability that are essential for a 
PhD track that will take at least 4 years? This chapter informs supervisors, 
Proposal Lab conveners and students about the results of the Proposal Lab and 
the qualities needed for a successful dissertation process.
Finally, an important component of the book is the Appendices. There read­
ers will find many tools that are of direct use for writing the proposal and 
supervising it.
An important caveat to conclude. As you will see, I have enjoyed the work of 
many colleagues from a wide variety of disciplines. In several cases I advised 
my students to study the important books in that particular discipline. Consider 
these references as suggestions. Regarding the substantive themes that I cover 
in the sessions of the Proposal Lab, you may have excellent alternatives that 
are more focused on your discipline. Take advantage of those, of course. Use 
my suggestions as a checklist to assess whether the essential points that play a 
role in writing a proposal are also covered in your preferred alternatives.
Acknowledgements
This book would not have been possible without the important work of my 
colleagues Heinze Oost, who sadly passed away much too young, and Angela 
Markenhof. Years ago, they published four small guides on preparing, supervis­
ing, and conducting research, and reporting on it afterwards. They laid the 
foundation for supervising the start of a PhD research project on which I could 
build.
I would also like to mention Rob van Gestel, with whom I provided the first 
versions of this Proposal Lab for Research Master’s students from the universi­
ties of Tilburg and Leuven. We didn’t agree on everything, but the collaboration 
was essential to the ideas developed in this book.
There are also colleagues who have given me enormous encouragement to 
realize this book. I mention here: Melita Kovacˇevic´ (Zagreb University), Lucas 
Zinner (University of Vienna), Joris Veenhoven (University of Utrecht), Paul 
van Dijk (University of Twente), Inge van der Weijden (Center for Science and 
Technology Studies, University of Leiden) and two anonymous reviewers. 
Their contributions have resulted in a major enrichment of the handbook. It 
now addresses both the supervisors and tutors of PhD candidates as well as 
those candidates themselves.
And where would this handbook have been without the intense, determined, 
and open-minded support of the colleagues at the Open University Press? In 
chronological order Sam Crowe, Beth Summers, Bryony Waters, Hannah Jones, 
Hannah Cartwright, Susan Dunsmore and Maureen Cox.
I am grateful to them all.
Reading tip
This chapter is primarily aimed at the supervisors, those who are 
responsible for setting up the PhD trajectory and in particular the 
programme teams who want to develop taught elements in the pro­
grammes leading to a PhD trajectory.
Supporting our 
students and early PhD 
candidates on the way 
to a PhD proposal
1
1 Introduction
Different paths can lead to a PhD project. There is a supervisor’s research 
plan, for which money is available and for which a suitable PhD candidate 
is sought. There are the MA students or early PhD candidates who can sub­
mit their own proposal and obtain funding on that basis. There are the for­
eign PhD candidates who have their own plan and who bring their own 
funding.
Various starting positions are also conceivable regarding the timing of the 
PhD project. For example, there are candidates who will combine their PhD 
project with a job or other activities. They work part-time on their PhD research 
and will take longer than their full-time colleagues. What these candidates 
share is that they can either write a good PhD proposal themselves, or they 
must be able to appropriate and specify a research plan written by their 
­supervisor.
How can the university or graduate school best organize the introduction 
and admission of all these different types of candidates?
2  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
2 Organizing the support of (potential) PhD 
candidates
2.1 Triage: at what stage is our candidate?
The type of programme we are going to offer depends on the personal situation 
of the potential participants. The biggest difference is that between the ‘absolute 
beginners’ and those who are already well on their way to a research proposal. 
The latter can take two forms: they have previously written a draft of a proposal 
or have been selected to implement a plan developed by their supervisor.
In the case of the absolute beginners, participation in our Proposal Lab is the 
way to go, unless you want to place their proposal development entirely in the 
hands of individual supervisors.
In the second case, candidates who are well on their way, a Clinic model is 
obvious. The participants attend a Clinic, present their research plan in the 
making, receive feedback, and can determine whether the required skills are 
present. They can work on missing skills via a Mini Course, after which a defin­
itive plan is drawn up and discussed in the Clinic.
2.2 Before starting the PhD research
It is beneficial to have prospective PhD candidates work on a PhD plan in an 
earlier study phase. The students can investigate whether they really want to 
start a PhD project and whether they have enough drive to investigate a certain 
topic. In this phase, the student can also investigate which supervisor best fits the 
interest and personality of the future PhD candidate. If the students have drafted 
a good thesis plan at the end of this exploration phase, they will be off to a flying 
start in the PhD trajectory. This reduces the risk of a doctoral research lasting 
too long, with all the associated risks for successful completion. This test phase 
is easy to realize for the Master’s or MA students of the faculty where they can 
move on to a PhD position and the early-stage American PhD candidates.
A complication can arise when internal candidates work on a thesis plan for 
which no finances are available afterwards. This can occur in countries where 
universities do not have the resources to finance PhD research themselves. PhD 
candidates and supervisors are then dependent on finances from the second 
and third funding stream (national science organizations or non-academic cli­
ents). Nevertheless, drafting your own research plan is of great value as a 
learning experience, even though the subject may have to be changed later. The 
PhD candidates who have had such a pre-PhD experience will be perfectly 
­prepared to take a project into their own hands for which the supervisor, for 
example, has laid the foundation.
In some cases, students interested in a PhD trajectory can also be invited to 
participate in such an orientation programme, without a decision having 
already been made on the allocation of the PhD position. An example is the 
English MPhil programme that determines whether the candidate may switch 
to a PhD programme.
Supporting our students and early PhD candidates  3
2.3 During the first year of a PhD trajectory
In the case of internal or external candidates who have not followed a prepara­
tory proposal training, it is of value to make the Proposal Lab part of their first 
year of the PhD trajectory. They can familiarize themselves with several 
research and study skills that will prove to be of great value later. Consider, for 
example, the refinement of the research questions, engaging the most import­
ant literature, reflection on the methods of data collection, the timing of the 
trajectory, the planning of interim products in the form of journal articles and 
conference contributions and the explication of the requirements that will be 
imposed on a thesis. This helps not only the PhD candidate but also the super­
visors, as part of the PhD training is taken off their hands.
2.4 A big difference: a candidate’s own plan or a plan by the supervisor
It does matter whether PhD candidates are working on their own PhD plan or 
have been hired to carry out a supervisor’s research plan. Table 1.1 shows the 
differences in aspects.
Table 1.1  Differences between the sources of PhD plan
Aspect
PhD candidates working on 
their own research plan
Doctoral candidates hired to 
implement supervisor’s plan
Research 
topic
Doctoral candidate chooses a 
subject based on personal 
interest
Topic is fixed to a greater or 
lesser extent. With a wide scope 
of definition, PhD candidates 
will have to clarify and specify
Connection 
with the 
literature
Doctoral candidate will map 
the most important literature 
based on recognized search 
strategies. To be checked by 
supervisors
The research plan, including 
literature references, was often 
written a year or more ago. The 
doctoral candidates will have to 
investigate whether new, recent 
studies have now come to light. 
In that case too, the PhD 
candidates must be familiar 
with recognized search 
strategies
The literature 
review
Doctoral candidates will have 
to familiarize themselves with 
the requirements that are set 
for a literature review. In every 
thesis, or part of it, treatment 
of the relevant literature is 
essential
Doctoral candidates will have to 
familiarize themselves with the 
requirements that are set for a 
literature review. In every thesis, 
or part of it, treatment of the 
relevant literature is essential
(Continued)
4  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Aspect
PhD candidates working on 
their own research plan
Doctoral candidates hired to 
implement supervisor’s plan
Central 
research 
questions 
and sub-
questions
Doctoral candidates must 
familiarize themselves with 
the requirements of relevance, 
transparency and coherence 
that are placed on a good 
research question and the 
sub-questions
Based on this knowledge of 
requirements, the doctoral 
candidates must assess 
whether the research questions 
meet the criteria
The data that 
the research 
must provide
Doctoral candidate determines 
what information is needed 
to answer the research 
questions. To be checked by 
supervisors
The supervisor usually has a 
good picture of the data to be 
collected. The doctoral students 
check whether the mentioned 
data still match the possibly 
modified research questions
Methods of 
data 
collection
The PhD candidate determines 
the methods of data 
collection. To be checked by 
supervisors
The PhD candidates check 
whether the methods mentioned 
in the research plan are 
adequate
The structure 
of the thesis 
and the 
requirements 
that it must 
meet
The PhD candidates present a 
provisional table of contents 
and knows what requirements 
are set for, for example, 
Introduction, Literature Review 
and Conclusions. To be 
checked by supervisors
The PhD candidates present a 
provisional table of contents 
and know what requirements 
are set for, for example, 
Introduction, Literature Review 
and Conclusions. To be checked 
by supervisors
The planning 
of the 
investigation
The PhD candidates are 
primarily responsible for the 
planning of the research and 
the interim products. To be 
checked by supervisors
If all goes well, the supervisor 
has made the planning 
workable. The PhD candidates 
checks whether the timely 
completion of the thesis 
according to this plan is 
plausible
Table 1.1  (Continued)
Here we see how proposal training can support the PhD candidates in mak­
ing their own research plan or enables them to assess a supervisor’s plan and to 
specify it if necessary.
2.5 The individual track: supervisors accompany their own PhD 
candidate
Imagine that you are supervising a PhD candidate who has not drafted a thesis 
plan in a previous study phase or who cannot participate in a Proposal Lab in 
Supporting our students and early PhD candidates  5
Table 1.2  Overview of stages in the PhD journey
Topic
Activity
Available tools and 
information
Getting to know 
your candidate
Information sources:
•	 Use earlier experiences with the 
candidate, products of earlier 
research activities (MA thesis!) 
and the Snapshot
•	 Interview your candidate regarding 
this material
Appendix D: The 
Snapshot 
Composition of 
the supervision 
team
Consider broadening the supervision 
team if it consists of only one 
supervisor up to now. In some 
countries the supervision may not be 
by one and only supervisor.
How far the 
candidates is on 
the way to a 
proposal
Discussion of the journey to a 
proposal
Figure 3.1
Skills and knowledge in action
Planning 
Planning the journey to the proposal
Flowcharts as 
presented in 
Appendix F
Meeting other 
experts
Interviewing + writing draft of 
interview invitation + writing of 
interview report.
Discussion with you about the report
Appendix L: Section 
1, evaluation of 
interview reports
Literature 
search
If necessary, the candidate reads 
literature on how to do a literature 
search and literature review
Appendix L: and 
Session 5 of the 
Proposal Lab:
(Continued)
the first year of the PhD programme. Although this handbook is focused on 
supporting PhD candidates in the context of a Proposal Lab, you will find many 
building blocks for supporting your PhD candidate in drafting a good research 
plan.
Here I outline the stages you are likely to go through with your candidate. 
For each item you will find tools in the Appendices of this handbook that can 
help you and your candidate.
On the way to a proposal: overview
6  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Topic
Activity
Available tools and 
information
Critical 
appraisal of 
scientific work
Literature 
review
The candidate will practise a 
literature search and critical 
appraisal of literature. The candidate 
will write a literature review of five 
texts and a report on the search 
process
Discussion with you about the test 
review
Section 2, Evaluation 
of the literature 
search report, 
Section 3, Evaluation of 
the critical appraisals,
Section 4, Evaluation 
of the literature reviews
Writing skills
You will analyse strengths and 
weaknesses in earlier study products 
of your candidate. 
Option: candidate participates in 
courses such as Academic 
Publishing
Getting a grip on 
the basic 
components of a 
research 
proposal
Reading:
•	 Reading two examples of research 
proposals and discussing them 
with you
•	 Interviewing peers who did write a 
proposal
•	 Reading one of the many proposal 
guidelines 
Appendices G and I 
Session 3 of the 
Proposal Lab
Distinguishing 
different types of 
research questions
Discussing with you the results of 
the Question Practicum
Appendix K: The 
Question Practicum
The well-
reasoned topic 
choice
Meeting your candidate to discuss 
the topic preferences
Appendix H: A 
Well-Reasoned Topic 
Choice
An essential 
moment:  giving 
your candidate 
insight into your 
expectations 
regarding the 
planning of the 
process towards 
a proposal and 
the quality criteria 
you will use
Basic thought: a thorough proposal 
can be finished in 6–7 months. Ask 
your candidate to fill in the flowchart
Appendix F
Table 1.2  (Continued)
(Continued)
Supporting our students and early PhD candidates  7
Many issues in Table 1.2 will look familiar to you. Or you may even assume that 
your PhD candidate is familiar with them. If your PhD candidate does indeed 
have all this knowledge, the overview in Table 1.2 can serve as a checklist that 
you go through with your PhD candidate. You will come across some points 
that may be new to your PhD candidate. An important feature of this check is 
Topic
Activity
Available tools and 
information
Getting a grip on 
the proposal and 
thesis quality 
criteria
a. Reading the applicable chapter of 
Lovitts (2007) Making the Implicit 
Explicit
b. Evaluating two theses
c. If the candidate will be doing 
research for which you composed 
the original outline: ask your 
candidate to evaluate the research 
design and to update the literature 
review
Appendix G: Rubrics 
for evaluating the 
proposal qualities
From topic to 
question
The translation of research interests 
into the questions that will guide the 
research. Discussing the relevant 
section of the proposal with your 
candidate
Appendix K : The 
Question Practicum
The question of 
originality
Discussing Lamont’s 28 ways to be 
original (Lamont, 2009)
Reading information 
of Session 8 
(Originality and 
relevance). 
Discussing the 
relevant section of 
the proposal
Theory – claim – 
working 
hypothesis
Discussing Booth et al. (2016): 
Making an Argument and the 
information of Session 7
Discussing the 
relevant section of 
the proposal
Research design
Reading the information of Session 
8 (The research design)
Discussing the 
relevant section of 
the proposal
Proposal Halfway
Offering feedback to your student/
PhD candidate as to the Proposal 
Halfway
Making use of 
Appendices G and I
Final Proposal
Discussing and evaluating the result, 
The Proposal
Making use of 
Appendices G and I
Table 1.2  (Continued)
8  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
that important aspects of the PhD track are made explicit and you do not implic­
itly assume that they are known by your PhD candidate. Consider, for example, 
the moment at which an Introduction for the thesis is written. Your doctoral can­
didate will assume that this is the very last part of the writing process. However, 
you know how fruitful it is to write a draft-of-a draft-of-an-­introduction during 
the first thesis year. This will then have the function of a compass for the entire 
process that will be adjusted and adjusted again while working.
A special variant of this individual approach is the collaboration between a 
supervisor and a Master’s student in designing a research plan for which they 
can apply for an external grant. In this case, too, the following can take a lot of 
work away from the supervisor. There is a risk that the proposal will not receive 
funding. In such a case, the PhD candidate can also submit the proposal if, for 
example, a university PhD position becomes available. Even if all that fails, this 
experience in writing a proposal is of great value. For example, if the PhD can­
didate applies for a PhD position for which a project description is already 
available, this candidate will be perfectly prepared for a meeting with a selec­
tion committee to discuss the project and the opportunities for improvement. 
After all, the candidate is perfectly capable of seeing the strengths and weak­
nesses of a proposal.
2.6 A special option: a programme for external PhD candidates
A special category of potential PhD candidates is those who no longer follow a 
university programme but want to investigate from an employment position 
whether a PhD is something for them. Also in this case, a Proposal Lab is optimal. 
I developed such a programme for ten employees of Berenschot, an independent, 
international management consultancy firm. The programme developed into a 
pilot study in combining a tough consulting job and working on a thesis plan 
simultaneously. Interesting research ideas were developed, but at the end of the 
six months of the programme it was clear to all the participants and the Beren­
schot management that to actually start the thesis trajectory was impossible 
without a major adjustment of the professional work in terms of time.
2.7 The Clinic annex mini course
In fact, there are three variants in the guidance of a proposal development. In 
the first place, there is the support for potential PhD candidates in the form of 
the Proposal Lab. Second, there is the individual trajectory of supervisor and 
PhD candidate. Third, there is the Clinic model in which the participants – those 
who are already further down the road – analyse the progress of their proposal 
and determine with the Clinic’s convener what work is still to be done. This is a 
time-focused programme where knowledge and skills are tested, and the 
emphasis is much less on their acquisition. In some cases, a limited form of 
remedial teaching is the appropriate way. The starting point is a proposal in the 
making.
Supporting our students and early PhD candidates  9
Table 1.3  Clinic, Session I: the state of affairs
Getting to 
know each 
other
Introduction by convener. Information for participants as regards 
the further plan of action.
Participants to inform the convener about their situation:
•	 How far are they down the road to the definite version of a 
PhD proposal?
•	 What has been done?
•	 What is still to be done?
Data collection In Clinic activity: candidates perform a SWOT analysis regarding 
what they know about the supervisor’s expectations and the 
presence or absence of necessary skills (see Appendix M, 
‘SWOT analysis by candidates already halfway to a proposal’).
What do the participants know about their supervisor’s expectations?
•	 In terms of the timing of the project
•	 In terms of the thesis format
	◦Will the thesis be a book?
	◦Will the thesis be composed of journal articles?
	◦If so, how many articles?
	◦Are there special requirements on the status of the journals?
	◦What is the supervisor’s opinion regarding the necessary or 
unnecessary coherence between the components of the 
thesis?
	◦What will be the number of articles?
	◦What is the aspired journal status?
3. In terms of quality criteria that will apply to the proposal.
In case of more than one supervisor: the agreements between 
the supervisors regarding the issues mentioned above.
Knowledge. What does the participant know about:
•	 the financial conditions of the project?
•	 the agreements about co-authorship?
Analysis of skills, knowledge of: 
•	 Planning – flowcharts
•	 How to get from Topic to Question
•	 Literature search
•	 Critical appraisal
•	 Literature review
•	 Role of theory/hypothesis/claim
•	 Proposal Format
•	 Research design in the participant’s discipline
•	 Quality criteria applicable to proposal
•	 Operationalization of the Originality criterion
•	 ‘80% ready model’ versus paralyzing perfectionism
•	 How to manage supervisors
(Continued)
10  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
A programme for a Clinic in two sessions can look as shown in Table 1.3 and 
Table 1.4. The reader will see that many building blocks correspond 1-to-1 with 
the components of the Proposal Lab that will be discussed in detail in the fol­
lowing chapters.
Conclusions: determination of strengths and weaknesses in the current 
situation + developing plan of action: 
Improvement 
strategies for 
weaker 
aspects
•	 Extra skills training?
•	 Reading skills literature, searching, and reading important 
website information?
•	 Peer support?
•	 Contact with supervisor?
Timing of 
activities 
between first 
and second 
Clinic sessions
Making a flowchart. Is there a product that they would like to 
work on and discuss in Session 2 of this Clinic?
Example of a 
strategy 
In the clinic, a discussion of a research proposal, with 
application of previously sent literature about proposal criteria
Table 1.3  (Continued)
Table 1.4  Clinic Session 2: results of improvement strategies
Evaluation of flowchart
Evaluation per participant
Situation as regards major 
improvement actions
Reporting per participant
Convener evaluates per 
participant: the situation, and 
suggestions
Further action intentions of the 
participants for the near future
Brain gymnastics
•	 Writing a blurb of the thesis as it could look 
in 4 years
•	 Machine Trick: what is the best way to end 
my thesis without success? (See Chapter 3, 
Section 8.4)
Supporting our students and early PhD candidates  11
2.8 A collective approach: the Proposal Lab as a community of practice
There are many good reasons to get Master’s students or first-year PhD candi­
dates working in groups on a thesis plan. They will support each other in many 
areas and will also hold a mirror up to each other. ‘Best practices’ of partici­
pants are a source of inspiration for them all. Another advantage of a Proposal 
Lab is that the supervisors have a lot of work taken off their hands. Searching 
for the important literature, writing the literature review, learning how to pres­
ent your research, planning a research project and getting a grip on the require­
ments for a thesis can be efficiently transferred to the Proposal Lab context. 
This does not mean that the individual (prospective) supervisors do not play an 
important role. When it comes to the specific content of the research and the 
data collection, they are the first discussion partners for the (prospective) PhD 
candidates. It is interesting that the participants in the Proposal Lab can be 
supported in the choice of supervisors, but also in taking responsibility in the 
supervision process.
My approach has many similarities with the community of practice approach 
that revolves around individuals who share the same concern or passion for an 
activity and take the initiative to improve themselves in doing the activity as 
they communicate on a regular basis. Three dimensions characterize the com­
munity of practice, namely: (1) mutual engagement; (2) joint enterprise; and (3) 
shared repertoire (Mohd and Asmuni, 2016). However, in the Proposal Lab 
there is a central role for a convenor or tutor for moments of teaching and 
explanation.
Reading tip
This chapter is primarily aimed at colleagues supervising a Proposal 
Lab and programme developers considering introducing such a com­
munity of practice. If students are considering a PhD programme that 
includes a Proposal Lab-like programme, this chapter offers them 
tools to get a grip on its content and quality.
The Proposal Lab 
principles
2
1 Introduction
1.1 History of the Proposal Lab
Ten years ago, a new development in the organization of doctoral studies took 
place in the Netherlands, showing many similarities with the UK MPhil pro­
grammes and the first two years of an American and Chinese PhD trajectory.
In 1992, Bowen and Rudenstine had already pointed to a problem that arises 
for many students during the transition from, on the one hand, the highly pro­
grammed parts of an MPhil or Master’s programme and the first two years of a 
PhD programme, and on the other, the sudden challenge of having to develop 
their own research idea: ‘A still more troublesome problem, and one mentioned 
more often than any other hurdle, is selecting an appropriate topic for a doc­
toral thesis’ (Bowen and Rudenstine, 1992: 254). They conclude with an import­
ant recommendation which is still as topical today given the still-existing 
problem of early attrition: ‘We suggest seeking ways to encourage students to 
begin to engage the reality of serious thesis-related research during their first 
and second years’ (ibid.: 283). In this way, the transition from coursework to 
the preparation of one’s own research becomes less abrupt.
As already mentioned in the Preface, almost ten years later Barbara 
Lovitts confirmed this sketch of the situation that is an international phe­
nomenon: ‘A few faculty acknowledged the difficulty of making the transi­
tion from course taker to independent researcher/scholar. However, very 
The Proposal Lab principles  13
little concrete advice appears to be dispensed about how to make this 
­transition’ (Lovitts, 2001: 73).
To facilitate this transition is exactly what I am aiming for with this 
­handbook. It will be of value to individual supervisors as well as to those uni­
versity departments that opt for support via Proposal Labs or Proposal 
­Workshops, both belonging to the recently emerged communities of practice.
The development of the Proposal Lab was part of the renewal of the Dutch 
Research Master’s programmes, aimed at supervising and supporting the writ­
ing of a PhD proposal. I have been teaching this programme for five years. For 
both the department and future supervisors, this programme has the great 
advantage that the prospective PhD candidates are working for months on a 
PhD proposal that was not a try-out but became the basis of an often successful 
PhD trajectory, being also part of the material presented during the application 
for a PhD position.
If we want our PhD candidates to obtain their PhD in 4 years, they must get 
off to a flying start. This means that they must be able to present the first ver­
sion of a detailed proposal upon admission to the doctoral programme, and not 
a quasi-proposal of five hundred words in an embryonic state. That also means 
that we must make the students work on that proposal in the previous pro­
gramme. In doing so, they need our information and support. The sudden 
genius PhD candidate does not exist, and within the context of a Proposal Lab, 
I do not assume the presence of an individual supervisor from the very 
­beginning. The search for the best supervisor for their project is part of the 
proposal preparation.
This handbook aims to make this approach to the preparation of a PhD 
research accessible to the colleagues, in any discipline whatsoever. They will 
be given the opportunity to offer a Proposal Lab or individual guidance, ­without 
having to reinvent the wheel. The guide provides them with several ingredients 
for their own version: reading suggestions, tools, assignments, etc. They will 
adapt their version to the specific requirements of their own institute and 
­discipline. However, maintaining the core elements will ensure that the admis­
sion of future PhD candidates will be built on a much stronger foundation.
The Proposal Lab is designed to provide faculty guidance and peer support 
for the development of (1) an elaborated research proposal as a stand-alone 
exercise, or (2) the basic material for an application for a PhD position or a 
research position outside academia.
In parallel to the Proposal Lab, students will co-operate intensely with mem­
bers of the faculty, research group or graduate school, who are experts on their 
topic. The Proposal Lab is not a substitute for specialized training in particular 
disciplinary topics, which may be expected from teachers in domain courses 
and potential future supervisors.
1.2 The Proposal Lab in view of the admission of doctoral candidates
In 1988, the Netherlands started the system of research schools, later converted 
into graduate schools. I was the managing director of one of the first research 
14  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
schools for a long time. An important part of my work was supporting the 
selection of new PhD candidates. My colleagues and I put a lot of emphasis on 
the selection procedure. Writing a rudimentary form of a PhD proposal was an 
important part of that. However, we agreed that we could only get a good pic­
ture of the qualities of a PhD candidate at the end of the first year. The eventual 
paper had to show whether we had made the right decision and whether the 
candidate could successfully complete the process.
It soon became clear that this assessment – later called the ‘go/no go deci­
sion’ – did not lead easily to a decision about whether to continue participation 
in the doctoral training programme. In several cases we did not dare to send 
out weakly performing candidates. The supervisor often turned out to be more 
positive and the colleagues gave in to the supervisor’s strong plea to continue 
the candidate’s PhD trajectory.
At that time, we were making two kinds of errors in the decision process. 
We could send a candidate away while the candidate turned out to be a 
successful PhD recipient somewhere else. Or we could let a candidate pass 
who eventually did not make it, often after years of struggling. In general, we 
preferred the second category of mistakes. In other words, we preferred a 
slowly extinguishing project rather than intervening with a firm hand in a 
situation where an early termination of the project would have been a defen­
sible step.
This led, again, to more attention on the selection of the candidates. How 
could we do that better? The committees proposed we were stricter while the 
procedure was not changed much. Repeatedly, it became clear how difficult it 
is to get a good picture of the qualities of the candidate based on an admission 
request, a CV, a rudimentary form of a proposal and an interview of, say, one 
hour. In particular, the psychological qualities that are necessary for a PhD 
trajectory can hardly be seen in this way.
While this struggle continued, new developments took place in the Nether­
lands. In several study programmes, a 2 year Research Master’s programme 
was started. Part of this was in some cases a component in which students 
were supervised in writing a PhD proposal. In the Faculty of Law of the Univer­
sity of Tilburg, I was involved for 5 years in the teaching of such a programme, 
together with full professors in law.
More than one hundred students from the Netherlands and Belgium success­
fully completed this programme and very many of them applied for a PhD posi­
tion. Very often with success. For the faculty and future supervisors, this 
programme had the great advantage that the prospective PhD candidates had 
been working for some time on a PhD proposal that was not a try-out but 
became the basis for an often successful PhD trajectory.
In 2016, I concluded that the best way to get an idea of the candidate is to see 
him or her work in a pre-PhD trajectory. In that way, we can evaluate the can­
didate’s familiarity with the literature and the ability to search for relevant pub­
lications. We will see initiative in contrast to playing a waiting game. We can 
check the ability to plan one’s work and to comply with deadlines. We see 
whether the candidate possesses writing skills and knowledge of the necessary 
The Proposal Lab principles  15
methods of data collection and processing. Self-selection is an important aspect 
of this approach. Several candidates will conclude a PhD trajectory is not an 
attractive option for them.
The introduction to potential supervisors and their support in writing the 
proposal are also an integral part of the programme. This has the great advan­
tage that the candidate and the supervisors know exactly what they are about 
when a final decision must be made on starting the PhD trajectory.
In this guide we concentrate on writing a proposal in the context of a 
workshop or lab. The emphasis is on the pre-PhD research phase, for exam­
ple, by way of a special track in the Master’s programme, an MPhil pro­
gramme or the first two years of a US or Chinese doctoral programme. With 
modifications, the model can also be used as part of the first year of a PhD 
programme if PhD candidates still have a lot of space to bring in their own 
research ideas.
1.3 The Proposal Lab in view of graduate student attrition
In her book, Leaving the Ivory Tower, Barbara Lovitts raised the issue of 
graduate student attrition (Lovitts, 2001). In the USA, this is a big problem. The 
premature departure from the doctoral programmes is also a fundamental 
problem in the UK. Barbara Lovitts cites three types of costs involved: (1) the 
costs for the faculty, the department and the graduate school; (2) the costs for 
the university and society; and (3) of course, the costs for the early leavers 
themselves who started a project they did not finish. In the world of interna­
tionalization of doctoral studies, we can also mention the international subsidy 
providers being affected badly in the case of thesis projects that ended 
prematurely.
A lot of research is being done into the reasons for attrition. This is not the 
place for an extensive literature review. In this handbook, I limit myself to my 
own research experiences. A crucial point is repeatedly the insufficient 
preparation for a new study stage and the underestimation of the problems of 
transition:
•	 I first discovered this theme in my research on Master’s thesis histories in 
1980. In several respects, the thesis formed a starting point within a study 
that had been going on for years and for which people had been insuffi­
ciently prepared.
•	 In the late 1980s, I performed an analysis of the supervisor evaluations of 
my graduate school’s PhD candidates. The students had been working on 
their PhD for 8 months, which they had been admitted to on the basis of a 
rudimentary research idea. Their work was assessed by their own supervi­
sor and several other colleagues. The judgements were overly critical and 
focused on, for example, the literature review, the methodology and research 
design, problem definition, planning, the limitation of the research ambitions 
and the lack of working hypotheses or an individual position. These are 
16  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
exactly the components that are central to the Proposal Lab. By the end of 
that programme, the participants in the Proposal Lab are more advanced 
than first-year PhD candidates who come in with a rudimentary research 
idea and are dependent on a single supervisor.
•	 In a 2008 study into the quality of PhD supervision, I noted that PhD candi­
dates receive insufficient support regarding the research design.
•	 In 2015, I interviewed seriously delayed PhD candidates in Law. An import­
ant aspect of the substantive problems consisted of postponing major deci­
sions regarding the content of the dissertation together with or despite the 
supervisor. The overarching theme is that of procrastination. In the case of 
severely delayed candidates, I came across missing leading research ques­
tions and a delayed theoretical perspective. After years of work, clearly for­
mulated research questions could still be lacking. ‘I have a topic, but no 
leading question’ said one of the PhD candidates interviewed. Often, their 
research also lacked focus by not formulating a thesis, a claim, a working 
hypothesis or a leading argument. Postponing key decisions about the dis­
sertation for years and years compounds all these issues.
An argument in our defence could be that solving the problems is up to our PhD 
candidates. How could we have foreseen that they would not live up to our 
expectations raised during the admission procedure? There is only one answer 
to this: our admission procedures are insufficient. And the most important rem­
edy is to provide a preparatory trajectory that supports candidates in drafting 
a research proposal and offers them and their supervisors the opportunity to 
explore the collaboration and each other’s strengths and weaknesses.
1.4 Core goals of the Proposal Lab
Our handbook does not have to start from scratch, we are standing on the 
shoulders of highly regarded colleagues who have covered the important build­
ing blocks of our programme. We can integrate much of their work into a 
­process-based didactic of the proposal development. What are my points of 
departure?
•	 Supporting the proposal development is one of the most difficult didactic 
tasks in university curricula. We must advise and assist students without 
taking over their project. It is their plan.
•	 Regarding the proposal and the thesis in general, there are all kinds of 
implicit quality expectations. We must make these explicit as early as 
possible.
•	 We often expect students to have study skills that are essential for a pro­
posal. We should not tacitly assume them, but at least we should check them.
•	 If PhD candidates are dissatisfied with a component of the supervision, in 
nine out of ten cases this is the lack of attention to the planning. Learning to 
plan a proposal and subsequent thesis research will change their life.
The Proposal Lab principles  17
•	 Developing a proposal has predictable crisis moments. We can make them 
explicit and, thus, manageable in our didactics.
The process-oriented nature of my programme is one of its most important 
characteristics. Tongue in cheek, I once presented the development of a 
research proposal as a mountain tour, taking us past the Expectations Swamps, 
Mount Supervision, Lake Independence, Dark Parks and Alleys … and sketch­
ing the qualities that the travel companions must bring or develop.
2 Some didactic considerations
2.1 Foundation in proven didactic insights
In 1986, Mirande wrote his thesis: ‘The student as a novice researcher. On the 
development of educational tools for teachers and students in higher educa­
tion’. He reports on an educational experiment in which beginning student 
researchers were supported in a course format in developing a thesis annex 
research plan.
The model developed by Mirande did not come out of the blue. Important 
sources of inspiration were earlier experiments developed in the USA. Mirande 
distinguishes the following models:
1	 The Clinic. Teacher and participant together analyse the situation of the par­
ticipant, determine the strengths and weaknesses, and develop an improve­
ment strategy. This could be an interesting model for PhD candidates who are 
just abut to submit a research proposal and who are discussing a penultimate 
version. The question is whether such a model makes sense if the student has 
already developed a strong relationship with a supervisor.
2	 The mini-course. Participants read a handbook in which, for example, the 
ins and outs of a proposal and the way there are described. They are shown 
examples of proposals, after which they use a checklist to assess whether 
their proposal meets the requirements and indicates what still needs to be 
done. This model also assumes participants who are already well on their 
way.
3	 The Laboratory. In this model, the participants are faced with a multitude of 
learning activities, such as ‘learning by doing’ and ‘learning by discovery’, 
different sources of feedback, ‘experiencing self-confrontation’ and con­
frontation with a lab convener, (potential) supervisor and peers.
4	 The tools of the trade. As a fourth model, Mirande mentions the tools of the 
trade, a programme in which participants become familiar with rules, check­
lists, tests, procedures and flowcharts that participants can effectively 
adapt to their specific goal: their proposal.
Mirande translated important elements of these approaches into a programme 
for students who are in the first phase of making a thesis plan. Preliminary 
18  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
research showed that their problems centre around the following (Mirande 
1986: 85):
•	 problems with choosing a topic;
•	 difficulty in formulating the problem;
•	 problems with the selection of data and ideas to be processed to arrive at a 
solution to the research questions;
•	 problems with presenting the research ideas (difficulty with composition or 
writing);
•	 self-management problems.
We can compare these topics with our students’ own self-evaluation of quali­
ties. In the very first development stage of my programme, they mentioned the 
following points in individual conversations:
•	 misunderstandings as regards whether a certain type of research or specific 
topic would be acceptable;
•	 finding a well-defined subject and key question; this was mentioned as their 
main problem;
•	 differences between the students regarding the familiarity with a subject;
•	 weak management qualities;
•	 difficulties in bringing order to thoughts;
•	 difficulties with focus, topic, main question;
•	 perfectionism;
•	 doubts about having control over the study matter;
•	 worries about qualities of judgement;
•	 existential doubts about research qualities.
To conclude, my model – the Proposal Lab – meets the following criteria as 
sketched by Mirande.
1	 It is applicable to the writing of a proposal in various disciplines. However, 
an important feature of my programme is the insertion of discipline-­
specific knowledge. I therefore advocate a Proposal Lab in a specific 
discipline.
2	 The Proposal Lab is applicable to a wide variety of research topics.
3	 It makes explicit and debates the feelings of uncertainty and problems of 
motivation.
4	 It makes explicit and tests the skills that are indispensable when writing a 
PhD proposal.
In this student-focused Proposal Lab, you will recognize important building 
blocks from American didactic programmes mentioned above:
The Proposal Lab principles  19
•	 the entrance interview, the final interview;
•	 skills training;
•	 reading literature and guidelines (about writing a proposal, searching for 
literature, writing a review, interviewing experts, planning the proposal and 
doctoral research, the requirements set for a proposal and the assessment 
criteria);
•	 assignments regarding all these skills: learning by doing;
•	 the study of proposal examples;
•	 presenting work in progress to peers and (potential) supervisors;
•	 getting feedback on submitted work;
•	 writing a first draft proposal – revision – completion with a detailed pro­
posal, a final version;
•	 peer support and feedback.
This Proposal Lab is also part of a global development of support programmes 
for (prospective) PhD candidates, all aimed at reducing their isolation and 
introducing the support of peers and experts other than their own supervisor. 
For example, they appear under such titles as Doctoral Support Center in the 
USA or Doctoral Support Groups in the EU.
2.2 Didactic principles and efficiency
Apart from this scientific basis, there is also the aspect of efficiency if we locate 
such a programme in an MPhil, a Research Master’s programme or the first two 
years of an American PhD trajectory.
In our programme, let us say 20 students, we provide introductions to the 
following components:
•	 from topic to question;
•	 types of questions;
•	 searching and critically appraising the literature;
•	 writing a literature review;
•	 interviewing experts and potential supervisors;
•	 the role of theory, hypotheses and claims;
•	 originality of the proposed topic;
•	 the fundamentals of a proposal;
•	 the quality criteria that will apply.
The programme also includes assignments and the convener’s feedback on the 
students’ products, as well as peer-to-peer comments on work in progress. In a 
course format (20 participants), the teacher will spend around 9 hours per 
student.
20  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
If we fully individualize the guidance to a proposal (one supervisor per 
student), this will cost the staff member about 18–30 hours for checking or 
explaining skills, the preparation of feedback, explaining quality criteria that 
will be at stake and the meetings with the student, in the months of the proposal 
development.
Note that the Proposal Lab does not come at the expense of looking for and 
working with potential supervisors. Their role is also essential in the develop­
ment of the plan but can be limited to individual conversations in which 
products resulting from the Proposal Lab will be discussed. Thus, it does not 
release the prospective PhD candidate’s (potential) supervisor from a role in 
this journey towards a proposal.
Researchers will also be present at important moments to integrate knowl­
edge from the scientific field in which the programme functions into the Proposal 
Lab. For example, consider the sessions on theory and research design.
2.3 Didactics in practice
1	
Deliberately plan a stage of Topic Exploration, to distinguish it from the 
stage in which developing a research design and research proposal is 
central.
2	
Do focus on the product of the Proposal Lab: the proposal. Choose a 
proposal format that matches local standards. Very often, the model for a 
subsidy application with a national science organization works well. If pos­
sible, make use of the format used within the local graduate school.
3	
Be aware that the participants can and will choose different follow-up pro­
grammes. Some will apply for a PhD position, in your faculty or outside. 
Others will conclude that they do not want to start a doctoral research 
project but are interested in other types of research jobs.
4	
Do not force participants to choose a topic or a certain supervisor too 
quickly. Allow participants time to explore different possibilities. Make 
time for doubt and hesitation, for slowing down. However, make use of the 
possibilities that deadlines offer. At a certain moment, a participant really 
has to make decisions.
5	
Do not assume that participants have already mastered all the basic skills. 
Be aware that students sometimes have difficulty in admitting that they 
cannot or do not know something yet. University bluff, i.e. pretending you 
understand or can do something at university, when you don’t, can be a 
problem. See also independence not as a matter of course. In the case of 
international students, cultural differences in the relationship between 
supervisor and student deserve special attention.
6	
Work from a didactics of independence. The application of what you 
instruct the students is central. Learning by discovery!
7	
Avoid endless lecturing. If you are introducing a topic, use a maximum of 
20 minutes for it. And then ... to work!
8	
We can also sabotage creativity and independence, for example, through 
emphasis on methods or endlessly reading what others have done before. 
The Proposal Lab principles  21
An impersonal relationship with students will hinder their expression of 
concerns or uncertainties, and staying on high abstraction levels and offer­
ing no time for reflection, re-consideration and making mistakes in the case 
of genuinely innovative ideas also is detrimental.
9	
Think in terms of a laboratory, an atelier, in which the students can observe 
how their colleagues work. Use peer review and collaboration. They learn 
a lot from their peers’ feedback. Find a balance between the individual and 
the collective. Before they can do it themselves, young researchers are per­
fectly capable of assessing the weaknesses and strengths of the work of a 
colleague.
10	 Make the students aware of the great value of asking questions. Always 
think in terms of questions: ‘What questions do I ask of the literature and 
experts to be interviewed; which questions are central to my presentations 
of my research (oral and written); what is the guiding question in my 
research proposal and how does it differentiate into sub-questions?’
11	 An important aspect is the balance between the attention paid to the tasks 
to be performed and their quality and, on the other hand, the growth of the 
student as a potential young researcher. Is that not always the same? Can a 
student show strong development and at the same time deliver products 
that we assess with a mediocre rating? Yes, that is possible. The art of 
teaching Research Master’s or MPhil students and early PhD candidates is 
to postpone the impatience in achieving good performance. We do well to 
assess the first two assignments in terms of a learning curve that the stu­
dent is experiencing. Let us not forget that many participants have never 
done independent research before. It makes little sense to compare the per­
formance of the first two assignments with a set of criteria that we apply to 
the products that are submitted in the final phase, in particular, the Final 
Proposal. Keep in mind, however, that the judgement about the product of 
the programme should never come as a surprise. In the context of a forma­
tive assessment of the interim products, the student must obtain clarity 
regarding the criteria used as regards the proposal and how the student is 
doing in that respect.
12	 The Research Master’s, the MPhil programme and the first two years of an 
American or Chinese PhD trajectory are a testing phase. We do not know, 
even if we select well, whether the admitted students have had basic train­
ing in fundamental research at PhD thesis level. We will determine this 
during this Proposal Lab and that may even mean that a practice is created 
in which students work at different quality levels. When assessing the Final 
Proposals, the entire group comes together, and the qualities of the docu­
ments are judged by the same yardstick. Then, we can issue well-founded 
advice on a future research career. It is impossible and undesirable to use 
the first months in which students formulate their interests, topic and ques­
tions as the basis for an implicit goodbye to students who disappoint us and 
for a decision that we will not invest any more in them.
13	 The essential tension. The participant in the lab will receive advice from 
several sides. In the beginning, there is only the lab convener. One of the 
22  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
aims of the programme is that the participant chooses a supervisor. In 
some cases, it is clear from the beginning who will be the supervisor. Cer­
tainly, if the lab teacher is working in the same field as the supervisor, this 
can lead to explicit views of the lab convener regarding the content of the 
research being at odds with the direction preferred by the supervisor. Pow­
erful participants can manage this tension. Other participants may be 
tempted to want to please all the parties involved. That does not always 
work. Evaluations show that both participants and supervisors can experi­
ence an ‘essential tension’ between lab convener and supervisors. The lab 
conveners must be aware of this and become modest in their substantive 
suggestions as soon as they register that participant and supervisor have 
found each other.
14	 Planning. Repeatedly PhD candidates cite the support in managing the 
research project as one of the weakest aspects of the supervision they 
receive. That is a global phenomenon. Learning to plan a research project 
is one of the most important parts of the Proposal Lab to strengthen their 
skills in this area. The planning of a 4 year research project will be a major 
part of the proposal they develop. They must make it us believe it is plausi­
ble that it will work in, say, 4 years. They practise this skill in the Proposal 
Lab itself. They must submit a proposal in about 7–9 months. Planning all 
activities is essential for this.
3 Proposal Lab objectives
3.1 Generic objectives
The Proposal Lab will deal with the following topics:
•	 the development of a solid research design;
•	 individual research skills;
•	 the formulation of a research proposal;
•	 an introduction to research strategies and methods of data collection (in 
that way functioning as an entry point to the detailed study of specific 
­methods);
•	 teaching the participants how to manage themselves and the (potential) 
supervisor;
•	 teaching the participants to critically reflect on their own work and to assess 
the scientific quality of scholarly publications.
3.2 Objectives in detail
We distinguish three major building blocks in the programme: knowledge, skills 
and application, all combined with feedback. In the overview that follows, you 
will find the specifics of each building block.
The Proposal Lab principles  23
Objective 1: Knowledge of …
1	 The newest developments in the discipline.
2	 The function of theory in scientific research.
3	 The function of the research question and the diverse types of research 
questions.
4	 The components of a research proposal and the elements of a research 
design.
5	 The criteria that are used in the evaluation of research designs and research 
proposals.
Objective 2: Skills such as …
1	
Basic ingredients of intellectual craftmanship.
2	
Interviewing experts.
3	
Searching for the most important literature.
4	
Critically appraising the literature.
5	
Writing a literature review.
6	
Finding a research niche for starting a new project.
7	
Extrapolation: reflecting on one’s own research interests and research 
experiences to make new research-driven choices.
8	
Assembling the research questions, finding the required data to answer the 
question and methods to collect the necessary data.
9	
Reporting and communicating with respect to one’s own research.
10	 Giving and handling feedback (by course teachers, mentors/supervisors 
and peers).
11	 Complying with deadlines.
Objective 3: Application and synthesis
1	 Application of knowledge and skills in the development of one’s own 
research plans.
2	 Synthesis by putting together knowledge and skills in the development of a 
research proposal.
4 Admission to the programme
4.1 Information to be given by potential participants
There are many diverse ways in which students can decide that they want to 
participate in our Proposal Lab. In the first place, the Proposal Lab can be part 
of an MA programme that prepares students for a research career, outside or 
within the academic world. Their admission to the Proposal Lab will not be 
24  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
arranged separately but is integrated into 
the overarching admission procedure.
But let us assume that we offer a Pro­
posal Lab that is not embedded in a study 
programme that is subject to a serious 
admission procedure and that is not part 
of a first-year PhD programme. In this 
case, it is sensible that the conveners of 
the Proposal Lab assure themselves of 
the motivation and some basic qualifica­
tions of the person who wants to 
participate. In the box we see an example 
of the information the applicant should 
offer.
Anyway, do not confine yourself to a 
blind acceptance of everyone who regis­
ters! Get a feeling for the motivation and 
preparedness of your future student by 
inviting the student to fill in the Snapshot.
4.2 Snapshot assignment
What does this Snapshot look like? We have always used a form that asks 
for information about the candidate’s research interest and topic(s) under 
consideration, with a maximum of 1,000 words (see Appendix D). The 
candidates are invited to present information about the origin of their 
interest in doing research, their prior research experiences, their personal 
and intellectual qualities that are to their entire satisfaction, where they 
encountered their greatest problems and what has been the central 
question they have tried to answer in their most important prior research 
project.
In the next section of the form, we ask questions regarding ‘The way to a 
new research project’:
1	 What is your research about?
2	 How much is already known about your topic(s)?
3	 Why is this research interesting for you and others?
4	 Have you already discussed you research interests and topics with others? 
What were their questions and suggestions?’
The candidate is triggered from this very first moment into thinking about 
research interests and possibilities. It is unlikely that this will be the foundation 
for a definitive choice of a subject. What we are investigating is whether the 
candidate is already able to think about this exciting journey as a beginning 
researcher.
Information to be given by an 
applicant 
for 
your 
pro­
gramme:
a.	 Personal details (name, 
age, nationality)
b.	 Details of previous and 
current higher education
c.	 Prior education in English 
language 
(very 
often 
these 
types 
of 
pro­
grammes will be offered 
in English)
d.	 How did you hear about 
this Proposal Lab?
e.	 The Snapshot (see below)
f.	 Curriculum Vitae
The Proposal Lab principles  25
4.3 Interviewing potential participants
An answer to questions such as given above is an excellent starting point for an 
interview with the candidate. Other questions that can be asked are, for 
example:
•	 Can you summarize the core of your motivation for following our pro­
gramme?
•	 Does the possibility of getting a PhD play a role in this?
•	 Have you ever read a thesis in the discipline of ….?
•	 If you had to explain to a first-year Bachelor’s student what the most import­
ant characteristics of a research project in the discipline of … are, which 
points would you mention?
•	 In the research in your discipline, how do you see the relationship between, 
on the one hand, wanting to understand and explain something and, on the 
other, solving something?
•	 What is the best investigation report in your discipline you have read?
Even if you are not in the position or not wanting to deny a candidate the 
opportunity to participate, then all this information from the candidates is 
extremely valuable for the fine-tuning of the Proposal Lab. Moreover, the 
candidates know immediately from which angle the wind blows.
5 The prospectus, the journey and the calendar
5.1 The prospectus
Our assumption is not that students who are considering a PhD trajectory 
already know what a PhD proposal looks like. We also do not assume that all of 
them already possess the study skills that they need to achieve a good pro­
posal. This involves finding the important literature, being able to critically 
evaluate a text, writing a literature review, being able to interview experts 
about a PhD subject and, finally, drafting a research proposal. We have made 
this explanation of our expectations into an important goal of the Proposal Lab 
prospectus. We even try to make explicit the assessment criteria that the partic­
ipants will have to deal with.
This explanation is particularly important for participants in the Proposal 
Lab who come from other academic institutions and cultures. They are not yet 
familiar with the local practices and cannot rely on knowledge of the implicit 
rules of the game. For example, think of international candidates having been 
trained in a completely different academic culture.
A good Proposal Lab prospectus gives information about the lecturers, the 
Proposal Lab prerequisites, an overview of Proposal Lab objectives, the Pro­
posal Lab requirements, the books to be bought, an overview of assignments to 
26  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
be graded and their evaluation criteria, and the evaluation criteria as regards 
the Proposal Halfway and the Final Proposal.
In Appendix B, you will find a layout for a Proposal Lab prospectus. This 
layout serves as an example, to be adjusted to your own situation. But try to 
stick to the level of explicitness and detail that we propose.
5.2 A visualization of the journey
Similar to a real travel guide, we offer our travellers an overview through a real 
map (Figure 2.1).
Figure 2.1  The map of the journey to a proposal
JOURNEY TO A PROPOSAL : THE MAP
0. The preparation of the
journey: how much time
do we have on behalf of
the proposal and the
research project itself?
What are the biggest
dangers? Howard Becker’s
Machine Trick: what to do
to make a proposal fail!
Rough Topic
Exploration
I don’t have a
topic yet…
1. What is my topic?
I have not one, but maybe
three or ten topics…
The basic questions regarding
my topic: who, what, when,
where.
But first and for all: how and
why questions. And questions
of comparison and
development.
2. From topic to
question
3. What is already
known about my
topic?
How much do I have
to read? How and
where will I find the
important literature?
In the
literature?
What do the
experts know
about my
topic? Do
interviews!
4. Topic and questions
revisited and adapted to
my new information
The Proposal Lab principles  27
On behalf of the focus of our research… Are
we able to formulate a claim, a suspected
answer, or a hypothesis?   
6. The data I will
need to answer the
questions  
7. Which methods
of data collection?
8. Draft of a proposal
9. Proposal final version
The data: 
Results of experiments
Historical sources
Literature
Recordings
Results of observation
Personal documents
etc.
Study of literature?
Observing?
Interviewing?
Analysis of texts?
Testing?
Laboratory research?
Fieldwork?
Testing your proposal:
via experts
via supervisor
via peers (students)
via personal acquaintances and
friends
via self-evaluation
via checking with ‘proposal
criteria’
via comparison with a good
proposal 
Figure 2.1  (Continued)
5. The
questions
What is our goal?
To develop an
explanation? 
To find a problem?
To test an explanation?
To design something?
To describe something? 
To evaluate something?
Types of questions:
descriptive
explanatory
comparative
designing
historicizing
5.3 The calendar
Below is presented a summary of the Proposal Lab sessions, the assignments 
and individual feedback meetings. To illustrate this, we assume a programme 
that runs from September to June the following year. You can adapt this to your 
local circumstances. What must be avoided is haste. A programme of at least 
28  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Table 2.1  Timetable for PhD proposal
Topic
Time
Before start of 
the Lab
Pre-orientation on possible topics 
by participants by filling in the 
Snapshot
Topic Orientation 
Stage
1.	Introduction round teachers 
and students
2.	Your introductions:
a	 Preparing Research: in 
search of your research topic
b	 The Bigger Picture: 
Research design and 
Research Proposal
3.	In class Rough Topic Exploration
Session 1, third week of 
September 
Individual feedback on Snapshot + 
Rough Topic Exploration
First week of October
a	 Introduction to diverse types of 
research in the discipline [X]: 
the tricks of the trade
b	 Interviewing experts and 
informants with practical 
experiences; preparing contacting 
possible mentors/supervisors
c	 Planning your trip to a proposal
Session 2, third week of 
October
(Continued)
6 months is a workable alternative, with the components staying the same. The 
components of the programme consist of group meetings, assignments to be 
made individually and face-to-face feedback discussions with the Proposal Lab 
convener, (potential) supervisors, experts, and peers.
The programme includes contributions by experienced researchers in con­
ducting research in specific disciplines. For example, they focus on the differ­
ent possibilities of data collection, current trends in their discipline’s research, 
urgent issues that require research, the role of theory, etc.
The support for writing the proposal is in the hands of one or two experi­
enced PhDs. For the introductions to substantive aspects of the research, the 
Proposal Lab conveners can appeal to colleagues from their own faculty or 
research group.
As an example, the calendar in Table 2.1 assumes that the programme starts 
in September and will take approximately 8 months. Of course, you may adapt 
this to your own situation.
The Proposal Lab principles  29
Topic
Time
The ins and outs of a research 
proposal
Quality criteria that will apply 
originality and relevance
Session 3, first week of 
November
Training in literature search
Literature search practicum
The importance of embedding in 
the existing literature
Session 4, third week of 
November
On the way to a literature review
Note-taking and critically 
appraising reports and documents
Writing a literature review 
Session 5, fourth week of 
November
Handing in ‘A well-reasoned topic 
choice’
Second week of 
December
Individual feedback sessions on 
‘Well-reasoned topic choice’
Third week of December
From topic to questions
The Question Practicum 
Session 6, second week 
of December
Handing in:
1.	Literature review
2.	Critical appraisal of literature
3.	Research question and 
embedding report
Second week of January
Handing in:
1.	Report on literature search
2.	Interview report
March 1
Theory, hypothesis and claims
Different views on theory
The role of propositions
The ultimate focus: formulating 
claims
Session 7, third week of 
January
The research design
Fundamental criteria: validity, 
reliability
What data do we need?
How will we collect them?
Session 8, second week 
of February
Table 2.1  (Continued)
(Continued)
30  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
6 The literature
Which literature is an essential part of our programme? As mentioned, we do 
have the books about the characteristics of a research proposal and the books 
with tips and tricks for the PhD candidates who are facing that challenge. This 
means that our handbook does not have to start from scratch, we are standing 
on the shoulders of highly regarded colleagues. We integrate much of their 
work into a process-based didactic of the proposal development. See Appendix 
A for detailed literature tips.
Topic
Time
Proposal stage
After this last session, the students will work individually on 
their proposal for some time. It is worth considering 
organizing a meeting halfway through this period in which the 
students can present their developing ideas to each other and 
to you for interim feedback.
Handing in Proposal Halfway
1 May
Individual feedback Proposal 
Halfway
Second week of May
Handing in Proposal Final Version
15 June
Grading of Final Proposal
22 June
Table 2.1  (Continued)
Reading tip
In the first place, this chapter is intended for both students and early 
PhD candidates preparing a proposal within the context of a Proposal 
Lab or community of practice, as well as candidates who do this on 
their own with the support of a supervisor. Supervisors can take note 
of the advice that advanced PhD students give to those beginners, 
and the advice of supervisors to colleagues who are supervising pro­
posal writers.
The journey to the PhD 
proposal
The students’ perspective
3
1 Introduction: roadmap for the readers
This chapter focuses on the journey to a proposal seen from your position, the 
proposal writer, the student, or early PhD candidate.
A proposal is not something that we naturally know what it looks like or 
how to write one. Aspiring PhD candidates are always told: prepare a PhD 
proposal. However, it is never explained which path will lead to that 
proposal. Websites, books on supervision and teaching in preparatory 
university programmes make do with a one-page information sheet on 
the components of a proposal. For the rest, dear students, find out for 
yourself!
In this chapter I describe the journey to a proposal as a travel guide. A travel 
guide is intended to inform travellers about the best preparation, the stages, the 
must-see attractions, the composition of the travel group and any complica­
tions that may arise.
32  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Although the emphasis in this handbook is on the Proposal Lab, we broaden 
the perspective here. After all, there are other paths that will lead to a PhD 
project. The structure of this chapter is as follows.
I start this chapter in Section 2 with an important distinction, that between 
the students or PhD candidates who are allowed to choose their own topic, and 
those who are going to do research based on a plan developed by a supervisor.
There is another important distinction, that between the different types of 
PhD candidates in terms of timing their doctoral project. Are we going to do a 
PhD research, immediately following a Master’s programme, or later, for exam­
ple, in combination with a job? And of course, there is another big difference, 
namely between the (potential) PhD candidates who come from outside and 
those who have been taught in this research environment for years. The latter 
have already mastered the implicit rules of the game. Those coming from out­
side still must get a grip on that.
Thereafter, I will describe the journey to a proposal similar to following a 
travel guide (Sections 3–9). The following matters will be discussed:
1	 The map – a visual overview of the journey to the proposal. I outline the 
decision moments and central questions that we must answer.
2	 The timing of the trip – When is the best time to start a proposal and PhD 
research?
3	 What do we offer our guides and what do we expect from them?– This is not 
a solo trip. Many others will play an important role. What can we expect 
from them? But we don’t come empty-handed. Our supervisors, for example, 
have a great interest in the success of our trip. A successful PhD trajectory 
brings them and their research group publications, prestige and – in some 
countries – money. So, there is a mutual dependence between you and your 
supervisors.
4	 Solo or group preparation – When preparing a PhD proposal, we usually 
think of an individual trajectory. We are working on it under the care of one 
or more supervisors. More and more universities are starting to think about 
proposal support with a group character. In this book I use the term Pro­
posal Lab, where sometimes a supervisor is already available, but finding 
one can also be a central point.
5	 The preconditions for a dissertation project – Money, time, high 
quality supervision and a convincing PhD completion record of your 
department.
6	 The stages of my journey – Exploration, decisions, draft, testing and grand 
finale.
7	 Anticipating problems and survival tools – Experiences of our predeces­
sors, advice from peers, travel guides to read.
8	 What do I know at the end of my proposal journey? – Is a PhD project some­
thing for me? Checking my progress, my strengths and weaknesses. And 
how about my supervisor’s perspective?
The journey to the PhD proposal  33
2 Different paths lead to a PhD proposal
2.1 Solo or group preparation
Do we start the preparation under the care of a single guide (the supervisor), 
or do we prefer a group approach, such as the Proposal Lab described in this 
book? Do we travel solo to the proposal, or do we make optimal use of contact 
with travel companions and travellers who have already completed the journey 
to the proposal?
I start with an important distinction, that between the students or PhD can­
didates who may choose their own topic, and, on the other hand, those who are 
going to do research based on a plan developed by a supervisor. These starting 
positions place different kinds of requirements on you as a (future) PhD candi­
date, while in essence the same qualities and skills are assumed. The destina­
tion of the proposal journey differs accordingly. In the case of Master’s students, 
the journey to the proposal is essential to determine whether they want to work 
on this research for about 4 years. With (early) PhD candidates this is usually 
already established.
There is another important distinction. Are we going to do PhD research, 
immediately following a Master’s programme, or years later, for example, in 
combination with a job? Inherent to this are often the preconditions in terms of 
time. Many PhD candidates work (almost) full-time on their research, in con­
trast to part-time PhD candidates who take longer for their PhD research and 
must deal with combining research and demanding work and private responsi­
bilities. So, the key question is: should I start my PhD research immediately 
after completing my previous education or should I first explore other work 
options and then start my PhD?
As for the timing of the proposal, there are another two options. Making a 
proposal can be part of a Master’s programme or can take place in the first year 
of a PhD.
2.2 Preparing your own PhD proposal or executing a supervisor’s plan
The overview in Table 3.1 shows the main differences between a plan to be 
drawn up by you as PhD candidate and the execution of a supervisor’s research 
plan.
2.3 What do these variants have in common?
•	 Necessary research skills must be checked and possibly strengthened. Think 
of the literature search, taking notes, critically appraising the literature, 
writing a literature review, knowing the building blocks of a PhD proposal 
and research design skills in your specific discipline.
•	 We are fumbling in the dark when we don’t know which quality criteria to 
consider when assessing our own proposal or when we need to distinguish 
the strengths and weaknesses of a plan written by our supervisor.
34  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 In both cases, knowing your supervisor’s expectations and planning the 
journey to the proposal or adjusting a research plan written by the super­
visor are of great importance. Know that supervisors have the same expec­
tations of both types of candidates. And in either case, you and the supervisor 
need to get to know each other.
•	 Assessment committees assess all dissertations against the same criteria.
Table 3.1  Similarities and differences between PhD candidates with different 
starting positions
Aspect
PhD candidates are working on 
their own research plan
Doctoral candidates have 
been selected to implement a 
supervisor’s plan
Research 
topic
Doctoral candidates choose a 
subject based on personal 
interest. To be checked by 
supervisors
Topic is fixed to a greater or 
lesser extent. With a wide 
scope of definition, PhD 
candidates will have to clarify 
and specify
Connection 
with the 
literature
Doctoral candidates will map 
the most important literature 
based on recognized search 
strategies. To be checked by 
supervisors
The research plan, including 
literature references, was 
often written a year or more 
ago. The doctoral candidates 
will have to investigate 
whether new, recent studies 
have now come to light. In 
that case too, the PhD 
candidate must be familiar 
with recognized search 
strategies
The literature 
review
Doctoral candidates will have to 
familiarize themselves with the 
requirements that are set for a 
literature review. In every 
thesis, or part of it, a review of 
the relevant literature is 
essential
Doctoral candidates will have 
to familiarize themselves with 
the requirements that are set 
for a literature review. In every 
thesis, or part of it, a review 
of the relevant literature is 
essential
Central 
research 
questions and 
sub-questions
Doctoral candidates must 
familiarize themselves with the 
requirements of relevance, 
transparency and coherence 
that are placed on a good 
research question and the 
sub-questions
Based on this knowledge of 
these requirements and recent 
literature search, the doctoral 
candidates must assess 
whether the research 
questions meet the criteria
(Continued)
The journey to the PhD proposal  35
2.4 A third variant: the Proposal Lab
In addition to these individual trajectories, I present the Proposal Lab here. Its 
organization and content are described in Chapter 4. Much of what follows in 
this chapter refers to details to introductions, assignments and action summa­
ries in Chapter 4. The information that is used in the Proposal Lab can be 
directly transferred to the individual trajectories to a PhD Proposal.
In the Proposal Lab (prospective) PhD candidates work on their own PhD 
proposal, supported and guided by a convener. The biggest difference between 
the individual trajectory and the Proposal Lab model is that optimal use is 
made of the mutual peer review options that ensure a less individual and there­
fore lonely adventure. In addition, supervision is not fixed from the start.
Individual supervisors are also relieved of some of the burden. In the Pro­
posal Lab, participants will be trained to a high level in essential research skills, 
and they are not dependent on the abilities of an individual supervisor.
Aspect
PhD candidates are working on 
their own research plan
Doctoral candidates have 
been selected to implement a 
supervisor’s plan
The data that 
the research 
must provide
Doctoral candidates determine 
what information is needed to 
answer the research questions. 
To be checked by supervisors
The supervisor usually has a 
good picture of the data to be 
collected. The doctoral 
students check whether the 
mentioned data still match the 
possibly modified research 
questions and new scientific 
information.
Methods of 
data collection
The PhD candidates determine 
the methods of data collection. 
To be checked by supervisors
The PhD candidates check 
whether the methods 
mentioned in the research 
plan are (still) adequate
The structure 
of the thesis 
and the 
requirements 
that it must 
meet
The PhD candidates present a 
provisional table of contents 
and know what requirements 
are set for, for example, 
Introduction, Literature Review 
and Conclusions. To be 
checked by supervisors
The PhD candidates present a 
provisional table of contents 
and know what requirements 
are set for, for example, 
Introduction, Literature Review 
and Conclusions. To be 
checked by supervisors.
The planning 
of the 
investigation
The PhD candidates are 
primarily responsible for the 
planning of the research and 
the interim products. To be 
checked by supervisors.
If all goes well, the supervisor 
has made the workable 
planning. The PhD candidates 
check whether it makes 
plausible a timely completion 
of the thesis
Table 3.1  (Continued)
36  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
In a Proposal Lab, explicit attention is also paid to the planning of the jour­
ney to the Proposal. Many PhD candidates are satisfied with the supervision 
they receive, but they often judge the supervision as suitable for improvement 
in the area of timing and management of the project. The Proposal Lab pro­
vides this.
Please note that the Proposal Lab is not a substitute for individual supervi­
sion. The exploration of supervision possibilities is a core component of the 
Lab, and many of the Lab assignments are of direct use for the collaboration 
between the student and the (prospective) supervisor.
In the development of the proposal, the role of the supervisor becomes 
essential. The supervisor is the subject matter expert and will be the guide 
when it comes to the theories relevant to the student’s research, the design of 
the research and the choice of the appropriate methods of material collection. 
In a general sense, these topics are covered in the Proposal Lab, but when it 
comes to the elaboration for the student’s own research, the supervisor is the 
first sparring partner.
A special feature of the Proposal Lab is that in all parts of the proposal it is 
not assumed that you already know or are able to do something. Time and 
again it is checked whether you have something under control, or whether 
more information and practice are needed. Sometimes that won’t be the case, 
and then we can quickly move on to the next part. This checking of research 
skills prevents us from ‘university bluff’, i.e. pretending that we understand or 
can do something at university when we don’t.
3 The map: an overview of the journey to the 
proposal
No journey should be undertaken without a visual overview of the stages, dif­
ferent options and the moments when we can determine whether we are on the 
right course. In Figure 3.1 you will find a graphical representation of the route 
to a proposal, including all the intermediate steps.
4 The basics of our journey
4.1 Stages in the development of the research ideas
The one-try, ideal version does not exist. Our proposal in the making has differ­
ent stages and that also applies to the different parts of it. After an initial study 
of the literature on your subject, you write a try-out version of a literature 
review. You will discuss this with the Lab convener, supervisors and peers. You 
will see if you have mastered this skill, and then will move on to a more final­
ized version for the proposal.
The journey to the PhD proposal  37
Figure 3.1  The map of the journey to a proposal
JOURNEY TO A PROPOSAL : THE MAP
0. The preparation of the
journey: how much time
do we have on behalf of
the proposal and the
research project itself?
What are the biggest
dangers? Howard Becker’s
Machine Trick: what to do
to make a proposal fail!
Rough Topic
Exploration
I don’t have a
topic yet…
1. What is my topic?
I have not one, but maybe
three or ten topics…
The basic questions regarding
my topic: who, what, when,
where.
But first and for all: how and
why questions. And questions
of comparison and
development.
2. From topic to
question
3. What is already
known about my
topic?
How much do I have
to read? How and
where will I find the
important literature?
In the
literature?
What do the
experts know
about my
topic? Do
interviews!
4. Topic and questions
revisited and adapted to
my new information
5. The
questions
What is our goal?
To develop an
explanation? 
To find a problem?
To test an explanation?
To design something?
To describe something? 
To evaluate something?
Types of questions:
descriptive
explanatory
comparative
designing
historicizing
38  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
You follow the same procedure for the other components. Think of the 
research questions. Your first formulation will never be the final version. As you 
will read more and more, you will adjust your ideas and questions accordingly.
That is why I explicitly refer to a Proposal Halfway in our schedule. You are 
well on your way and now is the time to present a first draft to the Proposal Lab 
convener, supervisors and peers.
In the schedule, I distinguish the following key moments:
1	 The exploration: The exploration of my skills, my interests, the predeces­
sors in this research area, the supervision possibilities and the requirements 
that are set for a proposal.
2	 The decisions: My conclusions regarding the subject, the key questions, the 
material needed to answer the questions and the method of data collection.
3	 The draft: The Proposal Halfway.
On behalf of the focus of our research… Are
we able to formulate a claim, a suspected
answer or a hypothesis?   
6. The data I will
need to answer the
questions  
7. Which methods
of data collection?
8. Draft of a proposal
9. Proposal final version
The data: 
Results of experiments
Historical sources
Literature
Recordings
Results of observation
Personal documents
etc.
Study of literature?
Observing?
Interviewing?
Analysis of texts?
Testing?
Laboratory research?
Fieldwork?
Testing your proposal:
via experts
via supervisor
via peers (students)
via personal acquaintances and
friends
via self-evaluation
via checking with ‘proposal
criteria’
via comparison with a good
proposal 
Figure 3.1  Continued
The journey to the PhD proposal  39
4	 Testing: Getting feedback from potential supervisors, the Proposal Lab con­
vener, my peers, next to my own assessment of my work, based on the qual­
ity criteria I have studied.
5	 The Final; The final proposal and its discussion with supervisors and Pro­
posal Lab convener.
4.2 Knowing the essentials of a PhD proposal
Early in your proposal journey, you will have to study in detail what the result 
of your work should look like. In this handbook you will find a lot of informa­
tion about this. All sections of the proposal are related to the sessions as 
described in Chapter 4 and in Section 7 of this chapter.
The explanation of the proposal format functions as a map or a compass. 
The explanation shows the context of everything you are going to learn. It pro­
vides you with an insight into the final product and explains why the stages as 
described in Section 7 of this chapter are necessary when writing the proposal. 
It may be best to study the proposal composition at an early stage in your 
project.
Quite often the function of the proposal takes a subordinate position in the 
handbooks for PhD candidates and their supervisors. The importance of a 
good proposal is always mentioned, but the road to it is not dealt with in detail. 
It is quite different in the case of Brewer’s (2007) book, Your PhD Thesis. 
Brewer devotes an entire chapter to the research proposal, and this should be 
mandatory reading. Brewer also makes an interesting suggestion that you can 
consider. In addition to the proposal, he suggests having an overview submit­
ted of the chapters the student expects to be included in the thesis. This comes 
close to Umberto Eco’s suggestion in Section 7 of this chapter, ‘Getting a grip 
on your main line of argument’.
By making good use of the literature, your supervisor and the information 
given in Chapter 4, Session 3 and Appendices G and I, you will learn all the 
details of a PhD proposal. I will summarize the components of a proposal here.
Main components of a proposal
1	 Title of the research project
2	 The abstract: An abstract of a proposal is a collection of statements that 
comprises the essential points of the document.
3	 The research question:
a.	 Description of the field of study and the existing body of knowledge 
with reference to that.
b.	 The core question. Which central question would you like to answer 
with the research?
4	 The innovative character of the proposed project: What is the significance 
of the proposed research? Does it contain an original contribution to the 
field of existing knowledge? Is it of specific social or theoretical relevance?
40  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
5	 Considerations regarding theory and prior empirical research: Sketch of the 
dominant theoretical approaches and debates. Sketch of the dominant 
empirical findings. How does your research fit in with the present state of 
research and theoretical discussions in your field? What are the main the­
oretical concepts you intend to use?
6	 Proposition, hypotheses and argument: What is the central proposition? 
Your argument? Which are the working hypotheses?
7	 The data and methods and design: In this part of the proposal, you men­
tion the empirical data, the sources and the documents you will use to 
answer each of the research questions. How do you intend to gather the 
data? Do you have whatever permissions might be required? Have the nec­
essary informants agreed to co-operate? Do you have access to the 
sources you need?
Think in terms of proposal stages. Halfway, provide concise and clear 
answers, based on the ideas and information you have at that moment. If new 
data and theoretical insights become available, you may have other ideas and 
your plans may change accordingly. The Proposal Lab convener and supervi­
sors will discuss your Proposal Halfway in a face-to-face meeting. After another 
two or three months, you will hand in the Final Proposal.
Quality criteria that will apply
Appendix G contains the rubrics that are helpful to get a grip on the criteria that 
apply to the assessment of a PhD proposal and the result of a PhD trajectory, 
the thesis. The rubrics as a concept have their origins in the unique work of 
Barbara Lovitts (2007) whose book is not to be missed: Making the Implicit 
Explicit: Creating Performance Expectations for the Dissertation. If you want 
to get a grip on the criteria that apply in your discipline, then this book is 
required reading.
We worked in our Proposal Lab with rubrics such as those developed by 
Heinze Oost and refined by Rob van Gestel and the author.
The planning of the 4 year dissertation project
In some situations, you are asked to enclose with the proposal a schedule for 
the 4 years that a PhD project usually takes. The participants in the Proposal 
Lab or the individual proposal preparers can use two appendices for this pur­
pose. Those are:
•	 Appendix O: Planning Matrix PhD trajectory (research and other ­activities).
•	 Appendix N: Expectations in View of a 4 Year PhD Project. This overview 
has been composed based on advice by supervisors working in the technical 
and educational disciplines. It must be adapted to the requirements of your 
own discipline and field of research. This appendix provides you with a 
The journey to the PhD proposal  41
­wonderful starting point for a discussion about the PhD project planning 
with your own supervisor.
4.3 Your research file
It is wise to keep a ‘research file’ as you progress. Wright Mills (1970) described 
this in his ‘On intellectual craftmanship’. How can you keep track of determin­
ing what really sets you on fire, your previous interests and all the new infor­
mation you collect? Wright Mills suggests establishing a file on anything that 
comes to mind about a potential topic and to fill it with random ideas about 
subjects, newspaper or magazine clippings, notes from scholarly books and 
articles and snippets of conversations with people. If you’re still considering 
different topics, keep different files. Also write down your enthusiasm for a 
subject. If you keep such a diary for a few months and write down random 
ideas about the subjects, you will probably see what fascinates you time and 
time again and that may possibly become a subject for your thesis. Through a 
regular re-reading of your notes, literature annotations and interview reports, 
you will discover lines and patterns, leading to a well-reasoned choice of 
subject.
4.4 Planning
It is important to undertake good planning for the development of the proposal. 
We usually only have a limited number of months available. We must allocate 
our time well and set limits on the time we have available for the various parts 
of the journey.
First decision: the timing of the trip
When do we start developing a proposal? Do we already do this during a Mas­
ter’s programme or during a PhD programme that has already started? Or, put 
another way, as an external PhD candidate in combination with a job or major 
private responsibilities?
No planning is asking for failure
We know everything will fall into the water if we don’t plan the trip properly. If 
it cannot be planned properly, the trip will probably fail. You must not only plan 
a future PhD trajectory, but also its preparation.
An example of planning
The Gantt chart in Figure 3.2 shows an example of the planning of a PhD pro­
posal. This planning assumes that you also have other (study) activities. If you 
can work full-time on the proposal, the 8-month period can be reduced. 
42  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Action
Make your own planning chart for a proposal and discuss it with a peer, 
supervisor and the Proposal Lab convener.
However, it is important that the period contains sufficient moments of reflec­
tion and possibilities for revision of the work in progress.
For a detailed explanation, read the information in Chapter 4, Session 2.
Figure 3.2  Example of a proposal planning (10 months available)
Task
Sept
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
June
Snapshot
x
x
Literature search 
training
x
Literature search
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
Literature review
x
x
Formulating 
research 
question, 
embedded in 
study of the 
literature
x
x
Well-reasoned 
topic choice
x
x
Literature search 
report
x
x
Interviewing 
experts and 
writing interview 
report
x
x
x
x
Finding 
supervisors
x
x
x
x
Meeting 
supervisors
x
x
x
x
x
x
Proposal Halfway
x
x
x
Final
proposal
x
x
The journey to the PhD proposal  43
4.5 Getting a grip on the main line of your argument
In 1977, Umberto Eco wrote Come si fa una tesi di laurea [How to write a the­
sis], containing the chapter, ‘The table of contents as a working hypothesis’. It 
is inspiring and structuring to think about the title, the table of contents and an 
introduction early in the making of a research plan. In this way we force our­
selves to think about the broad outline of our project. Umberto Eco defines this 
very first table of contents as a working hypothesis and sees the draft introduc­
tion as the analytical commentary to the table of contents. We can begin to do 
this as soon as we are well under way in the exploration of the literature and 
embryonic ideas about our research start to arise in the form of a possible topic 
and guiding research questions.
Of course, these are not the final versions. Eco says:
The function of the preliminary introduction … is that it gives the opportunity 
to capture your ideas within a framework that will not be changed unless your 
thesis is going to change completely. In this way you will be able to keep an 
overview of your trips and raids.
(2005: 137)
Of course, this preliminary introduction will have to be rewritten many times 
before the thesis is handed in. Once you have conducted an initial literature 
search, developed a first version of the topic and the research questions, you 
can see this early table of contents as a well-grounded look into the future. Your 
supervisor will really appreciate that!
An even more condensed picture of the result is obtained by thinking about 
our project in terms of a 250-word blurb of our forthcoming dissertation. This 
exercise really triggers free and courageous thinking about your project. What 
is the aim of your dissertation? What will this dissertation explain? And what 
will be its structure and methodology? And why are you so suitable for this 
research?
4.6 Flexibility: working with research scenarios
There are moments of choice within your project. You may collect the material 
in one way or another. Access to certain locations or research facilities can be 
achieved in various ways. Countries, archives or people important to your 
research may turn out to be inaccessible. It provides relaxation by thinking 
about parts of our research in terms of options and scenarios. We do not want 
to detract from our central goals, and we know how our research will ideally 
progress, but thinking in terms of variants means that we do not panic if some­
thing goes wrong.
4.7 Buffer time!
It is very calming if we plan our activities in such a way that we want to finish 
them before the hard deadline arrives. So, if our proposal must be ready 
44  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
in 8 months, we secretly determine that we will bring the finish forward one or 
two months. This means that we schedule buffer time in view of serious prob­
lems and any delays in our work we might encounter. If we plan our own work 
exactly in accordance with the deadlines set by others, we immediately feel 
panic if something goes wrong.
4.8 Maximum use of peer support
When does peer feedback occur in the Proposal Lab and how could you orga­
nize this in an individual proposal trajectory? Examples of peer support are:
•	 In search of your topic. Students interview each other (Session 1, Proposal 
Lab).
•	 Discussing ‘best practice’ PhD proposals of predecessors in subgroups 
(Session 1).
•	 Preparing the interview with experts, peers and potential supervisors. We 
are asking the students to interview each other (Session 2).
•	 Introduction by a PhD candidate, who previously has attended our 
programme, presenting experiences with the literature search (Session 4).
•	 Students will be divided into separate groups to formulate research ques­
tions on their research topics (Session 6).
•	 Some time before the session, students read two proposals written by their 
predecessors. They must pay attention to the data and methods section in 
these proposals and evaluate them against the criteria mentioned in Appen­
dix G, ‘Criteria for evaluating research questions’. They bring their judge­
ments to the session and discuss them in three sub-groups (Session 9).
•	 Students are placed in pairs and each one gets 15 minutes to tell their col­
league: what the central research question is, what the sub-research ques­
tions are, and which (methodological) steps they will take to answer these 
questions (Session 9).
I give these examples because they can also be easily translated to the situation 
in which you are working on a proposal on an individual basis. There is a good 
chance that you will start your work near colleagues who are also working on 
a proposal. The trick is now to find them and to organize peer support. In 
essence, this consists of interviewing each other, studying, and discussing the 
good practices of your predecessors, giving each other feedback, and receiv­
ing feedback from colleagues who are more advanced with their PhD research.
4.9 Intervision
A special form of peer support is what we call intervision in the Netherlands. 
A group of colleagues meets regularly to discuss important issues. The presen­
tation and discussion of one of the matters that one of the colleagues wants to 
discuss are central. On the next occasion it is someone else’s turn. Everything 
The journey to the PhD proposal  45
can be discussed, from very practical matters (for example, the unavailability 
of technical resources) to parts of a proposal that drive someone to despair. 
The condition is that all participants are motivated to assist their colleagues. 
An intervision meeting is tightly organized (Table 3.2).
4.10 Action summary
As regards proposal requirements
1	 Read Proposal Information and Tips, Appendices G and I.
2	 Read Brewer (2007: 79–93) ‘The Research Proposal’ or another text that 
deals with the details of a PhD proposal. Write down three to five sentences, 
maximum, you consider to be of the utmost importance, interest, etc. Explain 
your choice.
3	 Read Watts (2001) ‘The Holy Grail. In Pursuit of the Dissertation Proposal’ 
(available at: https://dusk.geo.orst.edu/prosem/PDFs/InPursuitofPhD.pdf). 
You will find here also a few examples of successful research proposals, and 
the insights and reflections of the authors on their proposals.
4	 Read two proposals, written by your predecessors, and evaluate them on 
the basis of the information in Proposal Information and Tips, Appendices 
G and I.
5	 Read Chapter 4, Session 3.
Table 3.2  Stages in an intervision meeting
Activity
Duration in 
minutes
Each participant presents a case, an issue
5
The group decides which case or issue will be dealt with today
2 
The presenter explains the case or issue and the questions he 
or she wants to present to the other participants
5 
Participants formulate informative questions 
20 
Presenter may reformulate questions to group
5
The participants discuss the case
The presenter does not participate actively in this part of the 
meeting. Only listens and makes notes.
15 
Each of the participants notes down one piece of advice 
2 
The participants read their advice notes 
2 
The presenter reacts. Which bits of advice are interesting? 
Which concrete steps will be taken?
5–10 
Plenary exchange of experiences by the whole group
15 
46  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
As regards planning
1	 Read Chapter 4, Session 2 and Section 9.5 in this chapter, ‘What is my super­
visor’s perspective?’
2	 Plan the topic choice and the journey to the proposal. Make use of Appendix 
F: Planning the Well-Reasoned Topic Choice and Proposal Design. Remem­
ber to incorporate buffer time and other activities that demand time!
As regards the research file
1	 Start your research file from day 1.
As regards peer support
1	 If you are developing a proposal on your own, contact peers in a similar 
position and your predecessors to organize extra feedback.
5 Our guides: the supervisors and the Proposal Lab 
conveners
Developing a strong relationship with good 
supervisors is essential, but how do we 
find them? It is possible that the supervisor 
and you already know each other well. But 
especially for Master’s students and early 
PhD candidates coming from outside, a 
careful exploration of supervisor possibili­
ties is essential.
If you have been accepted as a PhD can­
didate who has applied for a specific 
research project, the supervision is often 
already set.
5.1 Interviewing to get feedback and to explore supervision options
Whether you are participating in a Proposal Lab or individually preparing for a 
dissertation project, interviewing experts is of great value, even in situations 
where you already have a supervisor.
If you don’t have a supervisor yet, one of the aims of your interview is to 
find out if one or more of these experts are really interested in your project. If 
there is interest and if there is a click in a more general sense, you can decide 
Most supervisors have the 
best of intentions but are not 
mind readers. Be specific 
about what you need. You 
are very likely to get it … You 
will also need the courage to 
turn down some requests or 
to keep probing, if things are 
unclear.
(Advice by PhD candidate)
The journey to the PhD proposal  47
for yourself after the interview whether you want to invite them to be your 
supervisor. It is good to consider this after the interview and not make it a topic 
of conversation during the interview. Hold your cards close to your chest. Once 
supervision has been seriously discussed, it is very difficult to return to it. Also 
you may meet scientists in subsequent interviews whom you would rather have 
as a supervisor.
In the Proposal Lab, this interviewing of experts is an important part. The 
primary goal is to get feedback on your research ideas in the making. In Chap­
ter 4, Session 2, you will find numerous tips for preparing professionally for an 
interview and the quality requirements an interview must meet. See also 
­Appendix L, Section 1.
5.2 What do the supervisors expect from you?
There are several good books that inform you about the do’s and don’ts in a 
relationship between supervisors and PhD candidates. I mention here a classic, 
How to Get a PhD, by Estelle Phillips and Colin Johnson (2022). They discuss 
the composition of a supervisor team, and the expectations supervisors have 
regarding their PhD candidates. Among those expectations I mention here: 
being independent, presenting work that is not just a first draft, regular meet­
ings and being honest when reporting on progress. Do also read the paragraphs 
on educating your supervisors and how to reduce the communication barriers. 
Many good suggestions are also made in the Action summary: the plea for a 
supervisor team (as opposed to working under the supervision of one single 
supervisor), reducing communication barriers, discussing the working rela­
tionship (next to the research content) and setting deadlines.
Earlier, I wrote that PhD candidates are on average positive about the qual­
ity of the supervision but have regularly noted a lack of planning and project 
management on the part of the supervisors. This is where the student who pre­
pares a proposal can really take the lead. Read Chapter 4, Session 2.
PhD candidates have many opportunities to manage the course of their 
supervision. Think about a proactive role in the planning of the proposal jour­
ney and gaining insight into the quality criteria that apply to the components of 
a proposal. I think being proactive is key here. This means that the student can 
take the initiative in many areas and thus manage the relationship with the 
supervisor.
Here are some more operating features of meeting and steering your super­
visor’s expectations. You will start from a strong position if you know the fol­
lowing:
•	 what a proposal looks like;
•	 which quality requirements it must meet;
•	 how you can organize a 4 year research project;
•	 how to search the literature, and how to critically appraise it;
•	 what a literature review looks like;
48  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 how to plan research and its preparation;
•	 how a dissertation is composed because you have analysed good 
examples.
And we offer and promote growing independence as evidenced by the 
following:
•	 no question by your supervisor without a tentative answer on your part;
•	 informing yourself about the evaluation criteria regarding your literature 
search, literature review, research question and proposal;
•	 pre-evaluating your work before meeting your supervisor;
•	 recording the meetings with your supervisors and submitting the minutes to 
them;
•	 working with multiple supervisors;
•	 planning your activities without being asked by others to do so;
•	 making use of peer feedback;
•	 internalizing an ‘80 per cent ready model’ to avoid procrastination.
I need to clarify that last point. Victoria took part in one of my programmes. 
A very good participant, but she suffered from the urge for perfectionism. And 
that led to more and more reading, and more and more drafts before she wanted 
to hand something in. And that had to be 100 per cent okay. The result was 
delay. At a certain point we agreed on the ‘80 per cent ready model’. This meant 
that she no longer was striving for a result that was 100 per cent okay but was 
satisfied with work that she felt still needed to be improved … 80 per cent done. 
And when she discussed this with her supervisor, she indicated in an accompa­
nying email what she thought still needed to be done. In one case the supervisor 
agreed with her, in another case he thought the work was fine already. In any 
case, the result of this was a brake on perfectionism and her procrastination 
came to an end.
5.3 And what can you expect from your supervisors?
I present two sources of information here, in addition to the experts’ knowledge 
as mentioned above. What expectations can you distil from research and the 
recommendations of the supervisors themselves?
What the research says
What can you expect from your supervisors? Several times I conducted 
research among PhD candidates and supervisors. I will not go into all the 
research results in detail. Here I summarize the main results of a ­university-wide 
study at Utrecht University (Sonneveld et al., 2011). What were the PhD 
candidates satisfied with? Where did they see areas for improvement?
The journey to the PhD proposal  49
On the basis of my own research, my suspicion is that you can look forward 
to the (expected) supervision with confidence. You can use the information 
below to operationalize your own supervision expectations.
Let me start with the overall assessment by the PhD candidates. In general, 
the PhD candidates are satisfied with the way in which the main supervisor 
fulfils these tasks (average, 3.7 on a scale of 1 = very dissatisfied, 5 = very sat­
isfied).
Some 89 per cent have at least one meeting per month with the supervisor; 
73 per cent have multiple calls per month. People tend to regard this as more 
than sufficient.
Aspects of the supervision that PhD candidates are satisfied with in decreas­
ing order:
1	
Contact, the social side
2	
Contact and availability, the quantitative side
3	
Interest, enthusiasm and involvement
4	
The supervisor’s expertise
5	
Project and time management
6	
Support and supervision
7	
Support in writing and publishing
8	
Room to manoeuvre
9	
Feedback
10	 Community building and networking
11	 Working conditions
12	 Support in preparation of career and long-term perspective
13	 Transparency of expectations.
The low position of ‘Transparency of expectations’ is alarming!
Next to the appreciation, there are also points that could be improved. What 
do these PhD candidates mention? A total of 543 PhD candidates explained 
their dissatisfaction in more detail. What were they less satisfied with?
•	 Contact (the social side)
•	 Contact and availability (the quantitative aspect)
•	 Project and time management
•	 Expertise of the supervisor
•	 Support and supervision
These Utrecht results are in line with much research among PhD candidates, 
inside and outside the Netherlands. The supervisors almost always score 
between ‘more than satisfactory’ and ‘good’ in a general assessment of their 
supervision. And there is always 10 per cent of PhD candidates who are not 
satisfied. If a university or department on average scores below 7 on a 10-point 
scale, then there is work to be done.
50  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
5.4 What advice do supervisors give?
Also very informative are the tips supervisors give each other. This offers you 
a glimpse into the supervisors’ kitchen. How do they view supporting you on 
the way to a proposal?
I asked supervisors from TuDelft and the University of Twente to make sug­
gestions to supervisors for good supervision. Their recommendations show 
that the suggestions of experts such as Phillips and Johnson do not come out of 
the blue. The recommendations below by supervisors also provide you with a 
benchmark against which you can test the support and supervision you obtain 
and suggestions on what to do if things do not go according to plan.
Scouting for talent
There are three types of candidates. The first of these are former Master’s 
students. Secondly, there are candidates that you met at a conference or 
during a visit or who have been recommended by a colleague whose judge­
ment you value highly. The third category, which is also the most difficult to 
judge, are the candidates that you need to assess purely based on written 
materials.
Previous experiences with a candidate in the Master’s programme can prove 
extremely valuable. In the Master’s phase, I teach subjects that many stu­
dents struggle with. But there are always a few good ones who just love the 
work and cannot get enough of it. The ones that enjoy it come back for their 
Master’s thesis. If you have supervised someone during graduation for an 
entire year, you have quite a good idea of someone’s strengths and weak­
nesses and can effectively assess whether you would like to continue with 
that person for another 4 years. The Master’s results provide a good impres­
sion of the students’ qualities, enabling you to screen them for potential PhD 
talent, which makes these kinds of candidates the safest bet in my 
­experience.
Dealing with diversity
The candidates that we get are ready and able to adapt and to be flexible, 
otherwise they would not have made it to our institute. I sometimes hesi­
tated to bring cultural issues on the table, when I suspected that was ham­
pering communication, but when I did, it worked quite well and really improved 
the contact.
Supervision flexibility
My first observation is that there are few general rules which can be applied 
to PhD supervision, because all heavily depends on the particular candidate.
Some PhD candidates want to have their independence and just want to dis­
cuss some preliminary results with you, while others need a meeting every 
The journey to the PhD proposal  51
week and you need to point them to every specific issue. Okay, you are right 
when you think that this is an exaggerated view on the topic. However, it 
makes clear that a PhD supervisor need to be quite flexible in the way how 
to approach a candidate.
Let me say something obvious. Do not forget that your PhD candidates are 
also people: they will have good and bad days. They will need some time to 
understand what must be done (i.e., to properly define their topic). They will 
have their own interests and wishes so you should be prepared to accept 
minor changes in your original research plan. They will have to read a lot and 
will benefit a lot from informal talks with other staff members (this will help 
them to sharpen initial PhD project ideas and to decide on the direction that 
they would like to follow).
Stimulating independence
An important and delightful function of the supervisor is to be the sparring 
partner of the PhD candidate. Play with arguments, allow, and even encour­
age your candidate to disagree, provided good arguments can be given. It 
keeps us sharp. PhD candidates are supposed to become independent 
researchers, who will be able to guide others in research. That means that 
they must be allowed space to follow their own opinion, interests, and 
methods, it is their work, their thesis (within the limit of agreed topic, etc.). 
This is something to be made clear at the start since some may feel left 
alone and without direction while one is trying to give them space. As much 
as possible, let them do what interests them most and what they are good 
at, then they will do wonderful things. Here, the supervisor comes in to 
ease the way.
Once the PhD is properly defined, you should slowly give them more respon­
sibility and, for instance, let them decide when they would like to meet you. 
In these meetings you should always listen to the candidates (who are slowly 
becoming experts on the topic) and give clear but open advice (i.e., do not 
push them to go into any predefined direction – unless you see that they are 
very lost).
From the outset, ensure that there is a reasonable level of structure. The 
direction you provide should decrease as the PhD candidate makes prog­
ress. Some candidates take time to become accustomed to the demands we 
place on their own initiative. Challenge the PhD candidates by asking ques­
tions rather than merely providing answers. They have personal responsibil­
ity for honing their research question, compiling their plan, and taking control 
of the process.
The first stage: the proposal
Many of my recommendations relate to the starting phase of a PhD project, 
i.e., finding the research topic and writing a research proposal.
.
52  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
The first six months of a PhD candidate are especially important. In my view, 
you should reserve some extra time for this period. You should meet them 
often, and make sure that they feel comfortable. I would use these meetings 
to learn about their background and to listen to their ideas.
Do’s
•	 Help the PhD candidate in defining the scope of the PhD project (during the 
qualifier phase but also in the ongoing process). What is too much, what is 
too little to do research on?
•	 Support the PhD candidate in ‘exploring frontiers’, to try new things which, 
at first sight, might look a bit inappropriate.
•	 Encourage candidates to be creative, to produce ideas that are new, relevant 
to the research community and which they feel excited about. At the begin­
ning, do not be too focused on the feasibility and the limitations of the 
research.
•	 Do advise candidates to do a decent literature study to know what research 
questions could be ‘cutting-edge’ research in their field of science.
•	 Once several research questions are identified, they must be turned into 
research hypotheses, thereby operationalizing the research question. This 
requires finding out about appropriate methods, existing data, sampling 
schemes; hypotheses are often not testable and have to be modified; maybe 
some research questions must be dropped as necessary data to answer them 
cannot be collected.
•	 Explain to candidates the purpose of the introduction and sketching the 
state of the art in the proposal, i.e., it puts the research into context, docu­
ments what previous research has found out and where there are research 
gaps. The introduction should contain all the aspects necessary to under­
stand the research questions.
•	 Help candidates to put various research questions into a larger research 
concept.
•	 Check proposals for sufficient detail on how to answer research questions, 
i.e., description of methods, sampling strategy, availability of images and 
spatial/non-spatial information.
No hiding problems
At the end of a meeting the steps for the coming next at least 3–4 weeks 
should be clear and then I want to see some results. If something in between 
went wrong, or the candidate got stuck, I want to be informed, and not hear 
after 4 weeks that there is no result because of a software problem, for 
instance.
Attention! The perspectives of students and supervisors may vary.
The journey to the PhD proposal  53
PhD candidates and supervisors may differ in their evaluation of the quality 
of supervision. In a survey among PhD candidates and supervisors in the same 
research institute, I discovered that the PhD candidates rated their supervisors 
lower than the supervisors rated themselves on the following qualities of super­
vision (Sonneveld and Scager, 2008):
•	 up-to-date expertise on the topic of my research;
•	 providing helpful advice on the research design and methodology;
•	 helping to maintain a clear focus on the research objectives;
•	 providing constructive feedback on the work;
•	 asking questions that make me look at the work from a new perspective.
PhD candidates and supervisors may also think differently about the impor­
tance of aspects of the supervision. In my research project, the PhD candidates 
attached more value to the following parts of the supervision than their 
supervisors:
•	 has up-to-date expertise on the topic of my research;
•	 is available when I need him/her;
•	 is understanding;
•	 meets me also at informal occasions;
•	 makes me feel at ease;
•	 advocates for my needs and interests;
•	 allows me to choose my own direction;
•	 provides guidance that matches my needs;
•	 inspires me;
•	 collaborates with me in publicizing (conference papers, articles).
This overview serves to make you aware of the fact that you and your supervi­
sors may think differently about the importance of certain aspects of the super­
vision and about the quality of the supervision provided. The trick is to organize 
your communication in such a way that these differences become visible and 
can be discussed.
6 The preconditions
Apart from the substantive aspects of the preparation of a PhD project, the 
foundation must also be in order. Consider the following points.
•	 The time available. How many years will be available for the project? If a 
project has not already been prepared in detail in a preliminary study phase, 
do assume 4 years for a full-time project.
54  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 Is it clear what will happen if a PhD candidate runs into time problems due 
to external causes? Consider, for example, delay caused by technical or visa 
problems.
•	 Is the PhD candidate not hindered by other university activities that require 
much more time than planned? Think of the obligation to provide education 
that exists here and there.
•	 Are the finances for the research in order? If the PhD candidate still has to 
search for funding during the research, there is a very high chance of delay.
•	 Is there a healthy organization of the supervision? In principle, more than 
one supervisor is assumed.
•	 Is the organizational context of good quality? How does your department 
score in terms of completion rates and time to degree?
7 The stages
7.1 Preparations
Earlier in this chapter, I made some literature suggestions. In addition, look for 
proposal tips on the internet. A search with the keyword ‘PhD proposal’ will 
lead to countless sources where you can get meaningful information.
7.2 Orientation: the topic, the problem you want to study
A good idea and a good plan do not come to us spontaneously but are created 
by a systematic approach. It all starts with a topic. Three starting positions are 
conceivable. You already have a clear-cut idea about a subject. Or you find ten 
different topics interesting. Or you are still walking about completely in the 
dark. The exploration of possible topics differs depending on this starting 
­situation.
In the first place, I distinguish an exploration that can lead to a confirmation 
of the subject you are so enthusiastic about. You will investigate the feasibility, 
the attractiveness (for example, has it been done before?), the supervision 
options and whether it connects with a research programme in the faculty or 
research group.
In addition, there is the pure exploration. You have no idea about a subject 
yet. How do we define such an exploration? It is a broad-ranging, systematic, 
well-planned search with the aim of discovering a good research topic, leading 
to a research proposal.
To strip the search for a subject of its mythical aspects, we define the explo­
ration of possible research topics as a research exercise as such. The essentials 
of a research design apply:
•	 What is the main question you want to answer by the exploration?
•	 How are your interests embedded?
The journey to the PhD proposal  55
	◦In your study biography
	◦In your social interests and activities
	◦In the literature
	◦In the intellectual environment.
•	 Are you able to explain the relevance of the topic exploration for you and 
possible supervisors, in other words, your motivation?
•	 Which sources do you need when deciding on the topic?
•	 How will you find these sources?
•	 How will you report on your well-reasoned topic choice?
Booth et al. (2008) suggest several sources that you may consult and give use­
ful tips. Among them: finding what interests other researchers, skimming the 
latest issues of journals, asking questions suggested by your sources (think of 
the concluding discussion paragraph in many journal articles), talking with 
practitioners, attending lectures, asking instructors about the most contested 
issues in your field, and finding internet discussion lists in your field.
It may happen that your exploration does not lead to one subject but to 
seven options. How then to make the final choice? Howard Becker (1986: 54) 
made a great suggestion:
Write whatever topic comes into your head, in no more than one or two sen­
tences … you will see that they share two or three central ideas, which are 
almost always variations on a common theme that interests you very much.
Practise this type of exercise in an analysis of your own earlier papers and 
reports to see if there are core elements in your interests.
Various obstacles can arise in this topic exploration: the topic is too broad … 
we can’t find literature on our topic … we must broaden the search field … we 
can’t find a supervisor … our preferred topic has been done before …
We can also encounter problems in the personal sphere. Preparing a thesis 
plan asks for a change of study style. We must shift from a more consumptive 
study attitude to one where production, daring to rely on intuition and indepen­
dence are central.
Thus, in this handbook we do not assume that you have already chosen a 
topic for your research. That is why we have developed a few tools to support 
you in the exploration of your interests.
7.3 Summary
In the earliest stage of your topic exploration, you may complete the Rough 
Topic Exploration Matrix (see Appendix E). The matrix mentions several infor­
mation sources. We ask you to write down which possibilities you are consider­
ing for contacting, reading, and analysing. Do not misunderstand this invitation: 
you are not asked to take a hasty decision about your topic. We only want you 
to think in a systematic way about the strategies you will use in developing 
concrete and more specific ideas about a possible research topic.
56  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
In the very early stages of your participation in the Proposal Lab or in the 
initial phase of getting to know an individual supervisor, this Rough Topic 
Exploration Matrix together with the Snapshot (see Appendix D) provide an 
excellent basis for brainstorming the next steps. In the Snapshot form you will 
find the points on which your Lab convener or your individual supervisor 
would like to hear more from you. For example: Why are you interested in 
doing research, have you been involved in research before? In your prior 
research experience, which of your personal and intellectual qualities were to 
your entire satisfaction? Where did you encounter the greatest problems? Can 
you tell us something about the topic(s) you have in mind? Why is this research 
interesting for you?
After a few months of intensive consultation with sources and experts, this 
exploration is followed by a well-reasoned topic choice (see Appendix H). If 
you are already sure of your topic, the moment for this well-reasoned topic 
choice can be brought forward. The well-reasoned topic choice focuses on the 
approach of the ‘topic exploration’ and your evaluation of the approach: what 
went well? Where did you meet problems? How did you solve them?
Thus:
•	 Read Booth et al. (2016). Move from topics to questions and the information 
offered in Chapter 4, Session 1 of the Proposal Lab.
•	 Fill in the Rough Topic Exploration Matrix, the Snapshot and the Well-­
reasoned topic choice.
•	 Discuss these documents with: the Proposal Lab convener, individual super­
visors and your peers.
7.4 Disciplinary embedding and the literature review
The topic exploration often deals with written sources. Which researchers have 
made the trip in this area before? What have they written about it? What were 
their main findings? And what suggestions for research do they make? A good 
review of these predecessors and their work is important for a good research 
design. You will become aware of your closest colleagues, get a grip on what is 
already known and develop a feeling for the hot issues in your research niche. 
Finding the most important literature is a dialectical process. You will start with 
an embryonic research interest, will search for the associated literature, and 
will subsequently adjust or drop the subject, will again search for literature, etc.
In Chapter 4, Sessions 4 and 5 of the Proposal Lab, you will find a lot of infor­
mation about these essential skills. Below, I summarize the main points. You 
will get the suggestions in view of what is asked from you in Section 3 of the 
proposal, to give a ‘Description of the field of study, the existing body of knowl­
edge and theoretical perspectives’:
•	 What don’t we know and understand? What has been neglected?
•	 What is the central object of the proposed research? And what is the research 
objective? Try as hard as you can to formulate your research interests in 
terms of a conceptual problem, in terms of what we don’t know.
The journey to the PhD proposal  57
•	 Or in terms of what we don’t understand, in terms of something that we want 
to make understandable for others. Don’t focus too early on practical prob­
lems, things you want to solve in the practical sense.
This description of the field of study will also enable you to argue the innova­
tive character of your research (Section 4 of the proposal):
•	 The newsworthiness, theoretical and/or practical or social relevance, and 
scope of the research problem. 
•	 What is the significance of your thesis? Does it contain an original contribu­
tion to the field of existing knowledge? Is it of specific social or theoretical 
relevance?
7.5 Searching the literature
As preparatory reading, it is wise to read Aveyard (2007), Chapters 1–4. These 
chapters deal with questions like:
•	 Why are you doing a literature review?
•	 How can you determine which literature is important for your project?
•	 How can you keep a close connection between your research question and 
the literature search?
•	 How to search for the literature?
She underlines the importance of having a research question that is neither too 
big nor too focused on your topic (ibid.: 66). ‘Ideally you will retrieve 10–20 
references that are well focused on your topic … it would be difficult to address 
your research question with fewer references, but you would be inundated with 
literature if many more references were identified’.
Initially, you will encounter a multitude of articles and books in your 
literature search. An important aspect of the search is an increasingly 
sharp focus on the small group of texts and authors that are relevant to your 
research. Ultimately, you will arrive at the 15–20 texts and authors 
predicted by Aveyard (2007). Although her book is written from the per­
spective of health and social care, it is also extremely useful in other fields 
of science.
Preparatory reading
Do also study the information given in Chapter 4, Session 4 ‘Searching for the 
important literature’.
Professional support in searching the literature
If you participate in the Proposal Lab, you will receive an introduction to the 
different search techniques from librarians and you will also practise search 
58  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
techniques. As an individual PhD candidate, you can investigate whether your 
university’s library offers such training facilities.
The most important aspects of a literature search are:
•	 having a systematic approach;
•	 using different methods of searching the literature:
	◦electronic searching and searching hard copies of books;
	◦additional methods of identifying relevant articles and books, e.g. snow­
ball sampling or scrutinizing reference lists of key articles or authors’ 
names, etc.
•	 recording the search strategy and writing down the strengths and limita­
tions of the strategy;
•	 using abstracts to identify the relevance of an article or book.
Starting finding sources
Your university will enable you to search the websites leading to the most 
important journals in view of your research.
Action
Prepare a brief note (maximum two A4 pages) for your supervisor or Proposal 
Lab convener containing the following information:
•	 formulation of your provisional research topic;
•	 an overview of the journals you would like to consult with respect to your 
research topic;
•	 the title of the journals and the motivation for your choice;
•	 possible problems you have met in this exercise.
Know, for example, French, Spanish and German journals are also an option, 
or journals from other disciplines. The minimum condition is that the journals 
are scientific ones!
Action
Open the journal websites and apply the search principles you have been 
learned or have studied, in combination with the insights you gained by read­
ing the chapters in Aveyard (2007).
The literature review
Many books have been written on the literature review and many internet sites 
are available.
The journey to the PhD proposal  59
•	 I like to use Aveyard (2007), Chapters 6–8 (about synthesizing your findings 
and presenting your literature review).
•	 Do also read two chapters in Booth et al. (2016) The Craft of Research: Chap­
ter 5, ‘From problems to sources’ and Chapter 6, ‘Engaging the sources’.
•	 Study Chapter 4, Session 5 of the Proposal Lab (the literature review).
In Chapter 4, Session 5 of the Proposal Lab, you will find detailed information 
on note-taking regarding sources, the critical appraisal of sources and the 
essence of a good literature review.
Action
Write down your research area, a specific research theme and your provi­
sional research topic. In this assignment, we ask you to try and fill out a 
complete ‘specification’. Try to follow the specification steps of:
1	 the discipline;
2	 the disciplinary subfield;
3	 your theme;
4	 essential ‘others’ (fellow researchers);
5	 their debates;
6	 the remaining questions (in your view, in the opinion of other authors);
7	 your niche for doing something relevant and original;
8	 theoretical anchor points, as offered by other authors;
9	 your subject.
Quality criteria
In this handbook you will find information about the quality requirements that 
a literature search, a critical appraisal of the literature and the literature review 
must meet (Appendix L). The positioning of one’s research within the discipline 
will be evaluated on the basis of its argument for the newsworthiness, theoret­
ical and/or practical or social relevance, and scope of the research problem 
(originality, relevance).
For the different quality levels at which this positioning can be performed, 
see Chapter 4, Session 4 and Appendix L, Section 4, ‘Evaluation of a literature 
review’.
Action
Read two thesis summaries. Grade these summaries with the help of the 
‘Rubrics for evaluating the proposal qualities’ (see Appendix G, Section 2), 
with special attention to embedding in the discipline and theory.
60  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
The double value of the proposal’s literature review
A special point of attention is the multiple value of a literature review. If enough 
time is taken for this, this not only creates an important building block for the 
proposal. With a good literature review, an important text is written for the 
future thesis or its components, if you start drafting a thesis based on articles. 
This is a draft. Over the coming years, colleagues will publish articles and 
books that you will incorporate into an updated version of the literature review.
Your supervisor’s quality expectations
In Appendix L, you will find the criteria used in the assessment of a literature 
review, the report of your literature search and the critical appraisals of the 
literature found. There is a good chance that your supervisor will not deviate 
much from this in the assessment of your work!
7.6 Originality
Future supervisors, admission committees or committees that award subsidies 
will assess your thesis plans on several qualities. In their journal article, ‘What 
is originality in the humanities and the social sciences?’ Guetzkow et al. (2004) 
show what the dominant assessment criteria are in the committees that must 
assess research proposals. Their research focused on the humanities and social 
sciences. However, the results of this research also apply to other disciplines. 
In their research, six criteria turned out to be dominant in the quality assess­
ment of a research proposal: clarity, ‘quality’ (in all its different operationaliza­
tions), originality, significance, methods and feasibility.
In one part of your proposal, you will pay attention to the originality of the 
thesis plan. This criterion is often something that causes fear. By intuition you 
feel that the evaluators of your proposal will judge your plans on this criterion. 
You might blow this criterion up to mythological proportions and have no idea 
how to give it hands and feet.
Twenty-eight ways to be original
The research of Guetzkow et al. (2004) can bring a lot of peace to your fears. 
They show that in the assessors’ practice many definitions of originality arise. 
In an overview they show 28 different types of originality. They distinguish 
seven main types of originality that can be operationalized further: an origi­
nal approach, an understudied area, an original topic, an original theory, an 
original method, original data and original results (ibid.: 197).
You can specify these main types of originality by asking yourself questions 
such as: will I formulate new questions? Will I study aspects of my topic that 
have been understudied until now? Will I bring together theoretical insights in 
an unexpected way? Or will I use methods in an unexpected way? Most likely 
The journey to the PhD proposal  61
your topic is already original just because you will be collecting new data and 
providing new insights.
For more details on these 28 ways to be original, consult their article which 
is available as an open-source document on the internet: (https://www.research­
gate.net/publication/241644109_What_Is_Originality_in_the_Social_Sciences_
and_the_Humanities).
In this context, it may also be useful to address the issue of the relevance of 
the proposed research: the consequences in terms of understanding a phenom­
enon or its societal consequences, and its impact on our academic world and 
the broader world around us.
It is best to discuss originality and relevance with your peers, the Lab conve­
ner and supervisor after your first steps regarding the literature search and 
literature review and before submitting the proposal halfway.
7.7 From topic to question
After some time, you will have oriented yourself in the direction of specific 
research topics. Now the moment has come that you will learn how to formu­
late a research question about a topic or how to evaluate research questions 
that have been formulated by others, for example, your supervisors. Below, 
several types of research questions will be dealt with. Your main action will be 
to formulate diverse types of research questions on your research topic.
The following will lead you to that part of the proposal in which you formu­
late the core questions of your research and make clear which requirements the 
formulation of your questions must meet:
•	 Which central question would you like to answer with the research?
•	 How do you unfold the central question into sub-questions, so that the joint 
answers will generate the answer to the central question?
Preparatory reading
Booth et al. (2016: Chapter 3), ‘From topics to questions’.
Chapter 4, Session 6 (From topic to questions).
Question Practicum
This is a brain exercise for questioning the subject of preference in diverse 
ways. Join The Question Practicum (Appendix K). You have reached the 
moment it will be possible to transform your major interest in a topic into sev­
eral question options. Try to write down your interest (or aspects of it) in the 
format of each of the seven question options:
For example: if my research preference would be a descriptive one, my lead­
ing research question could read as follows [……….], and my sub-questions 
as follows [1.………2………3……].
62  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Do not panic if an option doesn’t link up with your interest or the intrinsic 
qualities of the topic. If a type really does not fit your research objective, leave 
it out.
If you hesitate regarding several possible research topics, just choose one to 
do this exercise in these Question Gymnastics. Send the result of your work to 
peers, your Lab convener and supervisors.
The aim of this exercise is to let you ‘play’ with different question type 
options. At the end, you will have to decide which question type and research 
perspective you feel most comfortable with and is most appropriate in view of 
your research goal. One tip: do not think in mutually exclusive question options. 
For example, whatever your ultimate research objective might be, descriptive 
questions will always figure somewhere in your overview of main question and 
sub-questions.
Types of questions
Which types of question can we distinguish? Meltzoff and Oost distinguish the 
following types of questions (Meltzoff, 2007: Chapter 2; Oost, 2003):
•	 Existence questions: ‘Does x exist?’ Important when existence or non-­
existence of something is controversial (Meltzoff, 2007).
•	 Questions of description, classification and composition: ‘Is it variable or 
invariant? … What are the components that make up x?’ (ibid.). ‘What are its 
qualities, what characteristics does it have? How is it? What is it made of? 
Who or what does it involve? What does it look like?’ (Oost, 2003).
•	 Descriptive-comparative questions: ‘What are the differences? What are the 
similarities? In what ways are they different? In what ways do they overlap, 
are they the same?’ (ibid.).
•	 Relationship questions: ‘Is there a relationship between x and y?’ (Meltzoff, 
2007).
•	 Causality questions: ‘Why is it so? How did it happen? What is this a conse­
quence of? What reasons are there? What is its background? How could this 
happen?’ (Oost, 2003).
•	 Questions of evaluation: ‘What is its worth? How well does it work? … What 
are its advantages and disadvantages?’ (Meltzoff, 2007).
Evaluating the quality of questions
A good starting point for evaluating the quality of the research questions is 
the work of Bryman (2008). According to Bryman, the research questions 
for a thesis or project should be clear, researchable, connected with theory 
and earlier research, linked with each other, have a potential for contribut­
ing to knowledge and find a balance between too narrow and too broad. In 
Appendix G, Section 3, you will find the criteria for evaluating your 
questions.
The journey to the PhD proposal  63
A special note on the relationship between the main question and the 
sub-questions. We always try to formulate an overarching question that we can 
only answer by answering several sub-questions. Do view it as a pyramid. At 
the top is the central research question. Below that, we formulate the sub-­
questions that we need to answer the main question. Often there is another 
layer of sub-questions underneath. We are strict about including the sub-­
questions. We can be in love with a sub-question and the material that we can 
collect for it, but if we do not need all of this to answer the main question ... 
cross it out! This keeps our project lean. Booth et al. (2016) also offer useful 
advice regarding what to avoid: questions whose answers are settled fact you 
could just look up; that can be answered too easily; questions that will not be 
answerable because we cannot find the data to answer the question; questions 
that are based on preference or taste, questions that make you read too many 
sources, questions for which you cannot get the sources your readers think are 
crucial, questions whose answer you cannot plausibly disprove.
Action
Write out the research question and the sub-questions for your research pro­
posal, departing from a clear research problem and indicating the innovative 
character/relevance of your research and the way it is embedded in theory 
and existing literature (the literature overview is taken as a benchmark). You 
will start from the knowledge acquired in this section and Section 7.4 ‘Disci­
plinary embedding and the literature review’.
7.8 Something to fear: the theory
You have arrived at a part of the proposal that frightens many of you: THE 
THEORY. One of the explanations for this is the wide variety of views on what 
a theory is. I will go deeper into the definition of a theory as a collection of 
well-motivated, disciplinary embedded and researchable propositions/theses 
that try to explain or try to understand a phenomenon. My suspicion is that 
most of the PhD research is focused on collecting and analysing primary and 
secondary data for which propositions and working hypotheses are especially 
useful.
This section is related to Section 3 of the proposal: Description of the field of 
study, the existing body of knowledge and theoretical perspectives’. This part 
of the proposal is directly inspired by what you have read in the literature, the 
interviews you held, the meetings you had with your (possible) supervisor, and 
what you wrote down in other assignments. In this section you analyse the 
state of the (research) art regarding your topic. Essentially, this section is lay­
ing the foundation for your questions, your interest. The foundation for all this 
information is lying in your literature search, literature notes, critical appraisal 
and literature review.
64  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
In this section you will explain from which perspective you will try to answer 
your research questions, for example, explaining the theoretical foundations 
for a hypothesis, a research argument or a claim (Booth et al., 2016).
Different perspectives on theory
Pawson and Tilley (2008) make the lives of PhD candidates easier by making it 
clear that there are many different perspectives regarding the definition and 
role of the theory. For example, they distinguish the following meanings of 
theory:
•	 General orientations
•	 Ad hoc or ex post factum interpretations
•	 Empirical generalizations
•	 Axiomatic systems
•	 Hypotheses
•	 Explanations
•	 Paradigms
•	 Conceptual frameworks
•	 Causal propositions
You will discuss your own definition with your supervisor who will explain 
which traditions are leading in your own field of study and department. It is 
important and reassuring to know that there is not one sacred definition of 
theory. The crucial point is again that you do not assume that you already 
know what a theory is and what role it plays in your research. You will realize 
that your literature review is essential in developing your own theoretical 
ideas. Studying the research of others will give you a grip on the role of theory 
in research. Those researchers may also provide you with theoretical insights 
that are of direct use for your own future research.
Theory within a PhD research proposal: the propositions
In my own programme, I have always worked with the following working defi­
nition of the theory:
A theory is a collection of well-motivated, disciplinary embedded and 
researchable propositions/theses that try to explain or try to understand, for 
example, the existence or non-existence of a problem, the similarities, and 
differences between A & B, the (in)effectiveness of a measure, the plausibil­
ity of a development, etc.
It is not my intention to focus on a specific interpretation of the term ‘theory’. 
That is up to you and your research environment. It will help you to address the 
difference between theory and hypothesis in this regard as well as the role of 
The journey to the PhD proposal  65
theory in research. Bordens and Abbott (2008) distinguish between understand­
ing, prediction, organizing and interpreting research results and generating 
research (‘providing ideas for new research’). They conclude with the distinc­
tion between theory-driven versus data-driven research. This distinction comes 
close to the concept of ‘grounded theory’ that Glaser and Strauss launched in 
1967 (revised in 2009): the discovery of theory from data systematically 
obtained from … research. This approach can be especially useful in view of 
subjects where theories are not yet available for developing propositions, 
where neither the ‘grand theories’ nor ‘theories of the middle range’ can assist 
in formulating specific claims regarding our subject that has not been 
researched previously.
Action
Read literature on the role of theory in the scientific research in your disci­
pline. These texts can be ones that deal with the role of the theory in a gen­
eral sense, or in a specific domain, or in view of a specific topic.
Meeting colleagues: their view on theory
If you participate in the Proposal Lab, senior researchers or fellow PhD candi­
dates will illustrate the role of the theory in their own research.
Action
If you work individually on your proposal in co-operation with a supervisor, it 
is attractive to attend meetings where colleagues present their research. 
Every university department organizes such meetings from time to time. With 
all these presentations, pay attention to the role of theory in the research 
presented, the type of theory and which role the theory is playing in terms of:
•	 understanding;
•	 prediction;
•	 organizing and interpreting research results.
An opportunity for specifications: propositions, work hypotheses and claims
In Section 5 of the proposal, you will move to the formulation of your argu­
ment, central proposition, claim, etc. Many authors have given definitions of 
work hypotheses and claims.
We can think of the definition as given, for example, in the Oxford Dictio­
nary of Psychology (Colman, 2009) where a hypothesis is defined as a tentative 
66  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
explanation for a phenomenon, subject to criticism by rational argument and 
refutation by empirical evidence.
A must-read for all of you is The Craft of Research by Booth et al. (2016). We 
already met them in Section 7.7 (‘From topic to questions’). Here I focus on Part 
III of their book, ‘Making an Argument’: ‘At the core of every research argu­
ment is the answer to your research question – your main claim.’ Booth et al. 
explain how to evaluate the clarity and significance of the claim that answers 
your research question and that serves as the main point of your dissertation. 
They advocate a tentative answer to your research question to focus your 
research on the data that will assess and support its answer.
7.9 How to answer the questions: the material collection, the research 
design
At this moment you have reached a next stage in the development of your 
Research Proposal. You have found and studied the literature, you know why 
your research project is relevant, you are determined in your topic choice. 
Moreover, you have contacted experts, talked with peers and they all support 
your research ambitions. On top of this, you have found a good supervisor who 
is enthusiastic about your plans and your qualities.
You are approaching the real start of your project. There are some hurdles 
you must overcome before you can report about your plans in the format of a 
Research Proposal.
•	 You think, ‘Yes, I have the questions, but which data do I need to answer my 
questions?’
•	 You are working under limits of time and feasibility, so you must limit your­
self. You cannot study the whole world, all the cases, total history, you can’t 
interview all the possible informants … you must work on a selection of 
units (countries, cases, persons, documents, periods, experiments), in other 
words: the sample.
•	 You think, ‘Okay, I might have specified the data and the sample, but how 
then to collect my information, which methods of data collection and data 
analysis will I be using?’
Why is it important to offer our readers this information? We must comply with 
the important criteria in establishing and assessing the quality of our research. 
That starts with offering transparency on sampling and methods before we 
start the research (so that others can judge the quality of our approach and 
feasibility – ex ante evaluation) and after we have completed the project (so 
that others, for example, our supervisors, can evaluate the quality of our find­
ings and report – ex post evaluation). Let us make this more specific, by refer­
ring to Bryman and what he tells us about the most prominent criteria for the 
evaluation of research: reliability, replication, and validity (2008: 31):
Reliability. Reliability is concerned with the question of whether the results of 
a study are repeatable.
The journey to the PhD proposal  67
Validity. a) Measurement validity. b) Internal validity … Does the conclusion 
regarding a causal relationship between variables holds water? c) External 
validity. Can the results of a study be generalized beyond the specific 
research context?
Your primary interlocutors
Even if you participate in a Proposal Lab, the senior and junior colleagues from 
your department will play the leading role here with a primary role for your 
supervisors. They will give feedback, discuss with you whether you are master­
ing the required research skills and give literature tips.
You may already have research experience and have had introductions to 
the distinctive design possibilities, methods and techniques in your discipline. 
Now you will apply any existing knowledge in your own research design.
Action
Contacts with your supervisors and peers offer you the opportunity to deter­
mine whether your knowledge in the aforementioned areas is indeed present 
and where additional training is necessary.
Information sources
Regarding the literature, consider the following. It is beyond the scope of a 
Proposal Lab to discuss in detail the research design options in different disci­
plines. A literature search with the keyword ‘research design in [...]’ will pro­
vide you with numerous literature suggestions within seconds regarding the 
research design in any discipline.
In Chapter 4, Session 8, you will find more detailed information about the 
research design in the proposal. Verschuren and Doorewaard (2005: 111–14) 
published an important book on research design. I summarize their most 
important recommendations and observations. In each research project, the 
researcher selects methods to obtain the research findings. The researcher will 
be guided by prior knowledge or theories about the phenomena under study. 
The researcher’s ideas might be intuitive or formulated as propositions or 
working hypotheses. In that way the research process starts with a conceptual 
model of the object of research. That determines the questions that are to be 
answered and which procedures will be used to find answers to these ques­
tions. The research design shows the researcher’s plan for collecting and orga­
nizing data and which specifics rules and procedures will be followed. Many 
alternatives are available regarding the nature of the research cases, the num­
ber of cases, the primary basis for selecting cases (sampling), basic sources of 
data, the methods of gathering the data, etc. Every decision should be well 
motivated in the proposal the candidates are preparing.
68  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
After the primary research question has been defined, we will formulate a 
number of sub-questions whose answers allow us to answer the main question 
at the end of the research project. Sometimes we are inclined to formulate more 
questions than we need to answer the main question. This is a ‘red flag’ moment.
After we have formulated the sub-questions – and sometimes there is even a 
layer of sub-sub-questions – we will determine what kind of material we need 
to answer the questions and how we are going to collect this material. All these 
points must be clearly stated in our research proposal.
Bryman (2008: 381) mentions quality criteria in view of your design:
1	 How defensible are the design and sample of cases?
2	 Sample composition – how well is the eventual coverage described?
3	 Contexts of data sources – how well are they portrayed?
4	 How well has a diversity of perspective been explored?
5	 How well have details of data been considered?
Quality criteria
My teaching team at the Tilburg Law School developed rubrics for the evalua­
tion of PhD proposals. I present one of these rubrics to clarify the requirements 
in view of the data collection:
1	 Function of the research (describing, comparing, defining, evaluating, 
explaining, designing).
2	 Sample (segment of the population [universe of units or objects] that is 
selected for research, for example, locations, periods, objects, actors, etc.).
3	 The properties or attributes of object(s) of research (to be compared, 
described, evaluated, etc.).
4	 Data collection methods.
Rubric on Methods section
1=	 Lack of methods section: Methods section showing hardly any information 
on research function, sample, object properties and methods.
2=	 Methods section lacking relevant information on the research function, 
sample, object properties and methods. And/or level of analysis needs 
improvement. 
3=	 Methods section adequately clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis is satisfactory but is lacking 
details in motivation.
4=	 Methods section effectively clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis and motivation is good.
5=	 Methods section effectively clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis and motivation is excellent.
The journey to the PhD proposal  69
Application of insights
Action
Think about how you are going to answer the central research question (and 
sub-questions) of your research project. In other words, what data you will 
need to answer these questions, and what will be your research methods. 
Write your replies on one A4 sheet, bring it to the session of the Proposal Lab 
meeting and discuss it with your supervisor.
Action
Analyse two proposals written by your predecessors, paying particular atten­
tion to the data and methods section in these proposals and evaluate them. 
It is always about the following issues.
•	 Can we read the central questions and sub-questions in the proposal?
•	 Can we find justifications of the research (news value, social relevance, 
theoretical relevance)?
•	 Can we see how the research is engaged in existing knowledge?
•	 Is the necessary information about sources available?
•	 Is the necessary information about the methods of data collection 
available?
There are three questions that we will repeat again and again:
•	 Is information about those issues present in our proposal (presence)?
•	 Is the choice explained (how something was done)?
•	 Is the choice justified (why that choice has been made)?
Action
Organize a meeting with a colleague and explain to each other the following:
•	 what the central research question in your intended research is;
•	 what the sub-research questions are;
•	 which (methodological) steps you will take to answer these questions.
After these pairwise discussions, organize a meeting with your supervisors 
and – if applicable – your Proposal Lab convener.
70  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
8 Anticipating problems and concerns
8.1 Experiences of your predecessors: the Proposal Halfway SWOT 
analysis
To give you an idea of the situation after about 4 months of working on a 
proposal, I present the results of a SWOT analysis that my colleagues and I 
performed in response to the Proposals Halfway received. How far were our 
Lab participants on the way to their proposal? What were we worried about?
Such a SWOT analysis is an attractive means of assessing a proposal in all 
its aspects. We not only indicate the points for improvement but are also explicit 
in our appreciation. What did my colleagues and I see after about 4 months of 
hard work? For you, the results of this analysis can function as a checklist to 
determine how far you are on your way to a nice result.
Strengths
•	 Originality of some topics as such (while other students must find the empty 
niche in a popular field).
•	 Independence and willingness to work hard.
•	 The willingness to offer each other peer support.
•	 Not being afraid to tackle challenges and big questions.
•	 Recognizing the importance of a clear definition of concepts.
Weaknesses
•	 Planning and time management.
•	 Not clearly understanding the meaning of a hypothesis in a research project.
•	 Implicit assumptions about the existence of a problem to be studied.
•	 Unspecified information about the data needed to answer research ques­
tions.
•	 Weak interest in explanatory aspects of a project.
Opportunities
•	 Connecting practical questions with theory (‘why and how’ questions instead 
of ‘how should …’).
•	 Literature study is okay in most cases – next step: writing a nice literature 
review.
•	 Consulting peers and external experts.
•	 Seeing a Master’s programme and a PhD project as an integrated project (a 
Master’s thesis could become a potential chapter of the PhD thesis).
The journey to the PhD proposal  71
Threats
•	 Unwillingness to make choices.
•	 The project is too big (feasibility!), and no alternative scenario is available if 
original planning turns out to be undoable.
•	 Insufficient embedding of research questions in the existing body of litera­
ture (specifying what is known and unknown).
•	 Lack of communication with the supervisor.
•	 Not showing uncertainty or hiding problems.
•	 Procrastination (for example, not being able to stop reading).
•	 Not being in contact with (other) experts.
8.2 Advice by your colleagues, being a bit further on the road
Here is some advice from your colleagues, who are a bit further down the road 
to the PhD proposal. This is a shortened version of a letter of nine pages that I 
compiled from contributions by supervisors and many PhD candidates, present 
at the PhD Day 2009 of the Medical-Educational PhD Candidates Network 
(Sonneveld, 2009):
Dear fellow (future) PhD candidate,
You are considering starting a PhD somewhere or you may have just 
started. I hope I reach you before you decide to accept a PhD position 
somewhere. Below are many practical tips for a PhD candidate who just 
has started the PhD project or is preparing it … The most important thing 
is to talk to PhD candidates who have been supervised by your intended 
supervisor. Then you get an idea of how you will probably receive support 
and guidance … Your research stands or falls with good supervision, both 
in terms of content and collaboration between the two people … I would 
certainly make sure that the supervisor does not have too many PhD can­
didates so that good supervision is possible. Look before you apply and 
get started.
Financial conditions
Regarding the financing: is it already in place for the entire period of the 
future project? And if so, who is financing the project, what is covered by that 
financing and what is not, and are there any special conditions or interests 
to consider? ... Sometimes it happens that a project is initiated by a research 
group, whereby they take care of financing the first two years, with the 
expectation that financing for the last two years will be arranged with a yet-
to-be-arranged outside subsidy provider … What happens if it is not possible 
to complete the financing in time? This can mean that as a PhD candidate 
you will spend a lot of time in your first year writing for such a grant, time 
that you cannot spend on doing research.
72  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Click, and clear expectations
Whoever is going to do the supervision, I advise you in the first instance to 
pay attention to the click: can you get on well with each other, as people and 
as researchers? Invest in getting to know yourself and each other: what 
motivates, what appeals? You can make good use of this later; you will know 
better what you need and/or how you can approach your supervisor … And 
perhaps the most important piece of advice I have: make mutual expecta­
tions explicit.
From a practical point of view, it is useful to know whether your supervisor 
already has experience in supervising PhD candidates. If that is not the 
case, you will have to do and ask much more yourself than if someone has 
already had supervised 10 PhD candidates.
A knowledgeable supervisor
What should you pay attention to? That the supervisor is knowledgeable in 
the field. The supervision must also ensure that you are sufficiently in line 
with the state of affairs in the research and build on that. The subject of 
research is critically examined, so that it is not only relevant for your depart­
ment but also for the world. The good supervisor therefore also tries to help 
you place the research in a broader context.
Your network
During supervision, it is important that as a PhD candidate you have a net­
work of other researchers with whom to spar and exchange from time to 
time… As a starter it is not easy to find your way in the world of publications. 
A supervisor should show you the way to publication opportunities.
Schedule
Monitor the time if you have other tasks besides your PhD work, i.e., teach­
ing tasks. Before you know it, a lot of time and attention will go to the side 
tasks (which you also want to do as well as possible) while doing your 
research already requires a lot of attention, focus and effort.
In addition to any plan set up by others, make your own plan for the coming 
year. That gives you an overview. That means you must also plan for yourself 
the periodic evaluation moments. They don’t look nice but are much needed; 
for yourself but also for keeping mutual expectations clear. Failure to evalu­
ate periodically is not a sign of expertise or a high degree of independence!
The meetings
One of the most important things for managing a supervisor is that you have 
sufficient contact with each other. There must be an accessible contact to 
ask questions, especially in the first year. Is it someone who is very busy 
and who does not have time to consult with you? Then you must make clear 
agreements about this. Plan once every two weeks a fixed appointment to 
discuss things. It is good to make an agenda for all conversations, so that 
The journey to the PhD proposal  73
you can clearly steer the conversation in a direction, and you get everything 
you want out of it. Send it in advance, so everyone knows where they stand. 
In view of important conversations (e.g., when you and all supervisors are 
together), it is useful to write a report of the conversation and send it to 
everyone for approval.
The supervision style
One supervisor thinks that you should first try to figure things out yourself, 
the other thinks that muddling is a waste of time. You can learn a lot from 
both, but in a different way. Just try everything in the first place, then you 
will notice what works. The supervisors here often find it better if you come 
up with a concrete suggestion, then they have something to shoot on. They 
prefer not to have a question along the lines of ‘should it be this way, or that 
way, …?’.
Work pressure and teaching
Work pressure is an aspect of a PhD project that should not be underesti­
mated. Make agreements: what does/doesn’t belong to your research, which 
side tasks you can/don’t perform, how much time do you spend on such 
matters? Find the balance between watching time and learning as much as 
possible … As a PhD candidate employed by a university, you are often also 
expected to teach. Sometimes it has already been contractually stipulated 
how many hours that may be but ask future fellow PhD candidates from the 
same research group whether the practice also corresponds to what is on 
paper.
Issues
A supervisor who meets all the wishes and requirements as I have described 
them above is truly a ‘dream supervisor’. There are certainly a few of these 
around, but issues may arise over the course of 4 years that create a dark 
cloud over your partnership. I would like to conclude here with three situa­
tions that often occur between PhD candidates and supervisors. On a case-
by-case basis, I’ll indicate what you can do best. In all of this, realize that 
problems seem to happen to all of us. Remember that they can be a ‘natural’ 
part of growing up in a subject, doing complex research, and belong to the 
different phases in a PhD candidate’s own development.
Case 1. Expertise
You slowly but surely come to know much more about the subject than your 
supervisors. You get the feeling that there is a lack of good substantive feed­
back. How bad is that? What to do?
•	 Look for expansion of your network and discuss it with your (co)supervi­
sors. They can introduce you to other experts or relevant institutions.
•	 It seems essential to me that you continuously maintain communication. 
In case they can’t or do not want to make time for this, keep informing 
them about substantive steps you are taking, relevant publications that 
are already there and the substantiation of your own new insights.
74  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 If it becomes problematic and unworkable, involve others. As support or 
as an independent third party … In many graduate schools these kinds of 
specialists do exist.
•	 If the situation really becomes untenable, then ending this working rela­
tionship is ultimately the adequate solution (for all parties). This also 
requires care and integrity.
Case 2. Conflicting advice, lack of communication in your team
In our hectic academic world, this may be a more common problem than the 
first. You just don’t manage to get your three companions around the table 
at the same time. You notice that the supervisors hardly talk to each other 
about your work. All of this leads to repeatedly receiving conflicting advice. 
Even worse if you feel like your supervisors haven’t read your work when you 
get together. What to do?
•	 Do not become a ping-pong ball.
•	 Clearly state the problem, also indicate why it is a problem for you.
•	 Ask your co-supervisor/daily supervisor to intervene.
•	 If the problem arises at a later stage in your project: ultimately make the 
research decisions yourself and email them to your supervisors with an 
argumentation. Finish (politely!) with a sentence that shows that if one of 
your supervisors wants something different, they will really have to dis­
cuss this with you.
•	 Finish the co-operation if there is absolutely no other way.
•	 Avoid this problem by doing the following:
•	 Determine at the beginning who does what and decides (division of 
roles).
•	 Indicate clearly (but politely) at the start of your project that anyone 
who wants influence must also participate in meetings.
•	 Plan the appointments well in advance from the start ... if your super­
visors cannot get together at all, then there is something else going on 
than too-full agendas.
•	 Record agreements in an email, and make sure that everyone will give 
their storable consent.
Case 3. The bigger picture
Your supervisors are constantly focused in their supervision and comments 
on parts of the dissertation, the chapters are often published first as arti­
cles. You doubt whether they have enough eye for the dissertation as a 
whole. You start to worry about this because you realize that the Doctorate 
Committee will express an opinion about your final product from an ‘overall 
view’. What is the best thing to do in this situation?
The journey to the PhD proposal  75
•	 Think in advance of the red line that runs between your articles. After all, 
those are the chapters of your dissertation.
•	 It is not only the task of the supervisors to keep an eye on the line; the 
PhD candidate must also do this him or herself.
•	 Your research questions are leading and overarching. So, keep an eye on 
them.
Finally, I can say to you: ask! I think most supervisors are of good will, but 
like you and me, they can’t read minds. So, ask specifically for what you 
need. There is a good chance that you will get it … It is important that you 
also dare to say ‘no’ to some things, or that you ask further questions if 
things are unclear.
 Just ask nicely :).
If you want to make (and keep) your supervisor happy, do just a little more 
than was agreed in the previous meeting.
Best regards and good luck!
Your future colleague.
8.3 Which travel guides to read?
In the preceding sections I mentioned several authors who have written import­
ant books on preparing and conducting a PhD project. I mention them and 
some others here again:
Aveyard, H. (2007) Doing a Literature Review in Health and Social Care: A Practical 
Guide. Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Becker, H.S. (1998) Tricks of the Trade: How to Think About Your Research While You’re 
Doing It. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Booth, W.C., Colomb. G.G., Williams. J.M., Bizup, J. and FitzGerald, W.T. (2016) The Craft 
of Research (4th edn). Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Brewer, R. (2007) Your PhD Thesis: How to Plan, Draft, Revise and Edit Your Thesis. 
Abergele: Studymates Limited.
Delamont, S., Atkinson, P. and Parry, O. (2004) Supervising the Doctorate: A Guide to 
Success. London: The Society for Research into Higher Education.
Gosling, P. and Noordam, B. (2006) Mastering Your PhD: Survival and Success in the 
Doctoral Years and Beyond. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
Greenhalgh, T. (2010) How to Read a Paper: The Basics of Evidence-Based Medicine 
(4th edn). Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
Lovitts, B.E. (2007) Making the Implicit Explicit: Creating Performance Expectations 
for the Thesis. Sterling, VA: Stylus Publishing.
Phillips, E.M. and Johnson, C.G. (2022) How to Get a PhD: A Handbook for Students and 
Their Supervisors (7th edn). Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Punch, K.F. (2016) Developing Effective Research Proposals (3rd edn). London: Sage.
Verschuren, P. and Doorewaard, H. (2005) Designing a Research Project. Utrecht: 
Lemma.
76  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Watts, M. (2001) The Holy Grail: In pursuit of the dissertation proposal. University of 
California. Available at: https://dusk.geo.orst.edu/prosem/PDFs/InPursuitofPhD.pdf. 
(accessed 22 August 2021).
8.4 Anxieties are normal
In Chapter 4, Section 2, ‘The first individual feedback meeting’, I will give an 
overview of the most important uncertainties and questions that you can strug­
gle with as a starting proposal author. I outline the essentials here to show you 
that you are not alone:
•	 Now and again, the questions may arise among you whether a certain type 
of research or specific topic would be acceptable. You may assume certain 
research preferences on the part of the supervisors.
•	 Many of you mention finding a well-defined subject and key question as one 
of your main problems.
Most of you will recognize some weaker qualities in your self-evaluation:
•	 Weak management qualities: weak time management, difficulty in dealing 
with deadlines and the psychological background of these weaknesses (per­
fectionism as a theme!).
•	 Difficulties in bringing order to your thoughts: how to put ideas on paper, 
difficulties arriving at a logical text.
•	 Difficulties with focus, topic, main question: bringing too many things 
together, losing the plot in writing, a proposal being too broad, difficulties in 
narrowing down.
•	 Expressions of perfectionism: not wanting to stop, there is always some­
thing to improve, ‘Setting my bars very high, frustration in case of 
non-achievement of goals’ or ‘Unfinished work drives me crazy’.
•	 Doubts about having control over the matter of study: problems with man­
aging amounts of literature, ‘Drowning myself in books’.
•	 Existential doubts about research qualities: ‘Do I possess the intellectual 
capacities to become a researcher?’
Know that in most cases, everything turned out nicely at the end of the pro­
posal journey! Know that the supervisors will be happy to provide you with all 
possible support when it comes to substantive issues. However, if personal psy­
chological problems are involved, they become reluctant. They are not practis­
ing psychologists.
8.5 Getting a grip on the essentials of a successful journey: Becker’s 
Machine Trick
In our teaching, we asked our respondents to explain their positive and critical 
evaluations of their supervisors and their own efforts in developing a PhD 
proposal or PhD project. Reporting all their praise and criticisms would lead to 
The journey to the PhD proposal  77
an endless list of dos and don’ts. Instead, we will do the Machine Trick. This has 
been suggested by one of the most original thinkers in sociology: Howard 
Becker (1998: 39). To get a full grip on what matters in, for example, a success­
ful supervision and completion of a PhD project, we don’t ask ourselves what 
the best strategies and conditions would be. To get a sharp focus on what really 
matters, we ask ourselves how a machine should look if we want to make a 
supervision and our working on our PhD proposal fail. Imagining such a 
machine gives us a good reason for including what we otherwise would leave 
out while thinking about improvements. Of course, Howard Becker tells us, we 
don’t really want these results but engage in this machine-designing exercise as 
a way of systematically looking for everything that contributes to the occur­
rence of, in this case, the success or failure of a PhD project or, in this case, the 
development of a PhD proposal.
We ask ourselves the following question. How should the supervision 
machine and our proposal machine look in order to make our proposal project 
a failure? Here are the components of that machine:
1	
The supervisor accepts you as a (potential) doctoral candidate, knowing as 
little as possible about your ideas about the topic.
2	
Your admission or acceptance as a candidate is only based on written 
material – you don’t see each other during a face-to-face interview!
3	
In case of foreign candidates – your proficiency in English is not tested.
4	
Being supervised by one single supervisor who has another nine PhD 
candidates and is not sharing supervision with colleagues.
5	
You and your supervisor don’t care about the planning of your PhD 
project,
6	
... and will see each other every two or three months (maximum!).
7	
You will find out completely by yourself which proposal criteria will be 
used when progress is monitored.
8	
Of course, you and the supervisor don’t check before the start if you pos­
sess the basic qualities for designing a research project,
9	
... and you accept gladly the supervisor’s poisoned chocolate by letting you 
read and read and read as long as possible (no exercises in writing!).
10	 Your supervisor furthers your focus and concentration by hindering as 
much as possible communication with other specialists or peers about your 
proposal or dissertation in progress. Isolation always works marvellously!
11	 And, please, commit yourself to other heavy study obligations that hinder 
your time investment in the proposal.
12	 Success will be guaranteed even more if the supervisor lets you swim and 
suffer in case of a failing proposal development. The supervisor doesn’t 
intervene but lets you struggle in despair.
13	 And, please, supervisor, don’t show trust in your candidate, even if things 
are going very well.
Are there other components you can think of?
78  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
9 What we will know at the end of the proposal 
journey
And then the proposal journey is over. What do we know, then, about the attrac­
tiveness of our subject, about our own strengths and weaknesses, and about 
the viability of the working relationship with our supervisor?
9.1 Will a PhD project suit us?
At the end of this proposal journey, we also know whether we want to work on 
the same project for about 4 years. I sometimes compare PhD research with a 
10,000-metre speed skating race. Some of you find this appealing, others prefer 
driving 1,500 metres, shorter research projects. One does not necessarily 
exclude the other. In a dissertation culture that is increasingly based on writing 
articles, it is quite possible to divide a project into several parts. As a result, you 
will round off interim results. That is a significant difference in comparison 
with those who start writing a monographic dissertation and must wait about 
four years before they feel like it is finished.
Anyway, at the end of the Proposal Journey we will know much better if we 
want to work on a research project for 4 years or longer (part-time).
9.2 Checking progress
In Chapter 4, Section 2, ‘The first individual feedback meeting’, I report on stu­
dent evaluations of their own research qualities. If certain topics are familiar to 
you, it is interesting to chart your progress on these components after the Pro­
posal Lab or the completion of an individual proposal process. Probably you 
will feel much comfortable now. At the start, the students mentioned the follow­
ing as concerns:
•	 misunderstandings as regards whether a certain type of research or specific 
topic would be acceptable;
•	 finding a well-defined subject and key question (mentioned as their main 
problem);
•	 familiarity with a subject;
•	 weak management qualities;
•	 difficulties in bringing order to thoughts;
•	 difficulties with focus, topic, main question;
•	 expressions of perfectionism;
•	 doubts about having control over the matter of study;
•	 worries about qualities of judgement;
•	 existential doubts about research qualities.
How do you feel about these points at the end of the proposal journey?
The journey to the PhD proposal  79
9.3 Having a proposal, but no opportunity to implement it
When we start working on a PhD proposal, we are rarely 100 per cent sure 
whether we can implement this project. The proposal can be the material that 
you hand over when applying for a PhD position or at the start of the research 
stage of a PhD trajectory that has already commenced. Or you and your super­
visor will apply for an external grant for this research. In these cases, the out­
come is uncertain. But know that your efforts have never been in vain. An 
exceptionally talented participant in one of my Proposal Labs concluded with 
a good proposal for which no funding turned out to be available. Then her 
supervisor alerted her to another project. For this, too, she had to formulate her 
research plans in detail. Her previous proposal experiences enabled her to 
respond to this assignment in a very efficient manner, and within a couple of 
months; thus admission to the new project became a fact.
9.4 What are my strengths and weaknesses?
At the end of this proposal journey, you will have a good idea of your own 
strengths and areas for improvement. You can use the SWOT analysis, Appen­
dix P, to run through the points that matter most in relation to the future PhD 
project.
Implicitly or explicitly, the points for attention in this SWOT analysis will 
also be the points that you and the supervisors look at when deciding whether 
to continue the collaboration.
9.5 What is my supervisor’s perspective?
Consult Chapter 5 where you can read how supervisors distinguish types of 
PhD candidates from each other and which predictors of success and problems 
they see. In their words: are you a certain winner, a topic hopper, a promising 
but fragile talent, or a talented disappointer?
Reading tip
This chapter is written from the perspective of the Proposal Lab 
convener. In terms of content, it is also of direct importance for the 
participants in the Lab, individual students, and PhD candidates who 
are preparing a PhD proposal, and their supervisors.
The Proposal Lab 
sessions and feedback 
meetings
4
1 Session 1: in search of our research topic
You have probably already spoken with the participants in this programme 
during the admission procedure. If the admission is the result of a written pro­
cedure, you will see this candidate for the first time today. The participants 
themselves probably don’t know each other yet, with a few exceptions. This 
first meeting is therefore a real introduction to the convener(s), the fellow par­
ticipants, and the programme.
1.1 Script for the first meeting
1	 Welcome. The teacher introduces himself or herself.
2	 The participants interview each other. ‘Try to collect answers from six col­
leagues you don’t know yet, on the following questions:
	◦Why did you choose this programme?
	◦Do you already have experience with doing research?
	◦Do you already have an idea about a subject for future research?
	◦What role does this programme play in your future plans?
	◦Do you want to get a PhD?
	◦What do you think is the most difficult when doing research?
3	 Inventory round. Per participant: which answers provided you with inspir­
ing insights?
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  81
4	 What do we already know about doing research? Compose four subgroups:
	◦Groups A and B: Ask the participants to formulate what they think are the 
key elements of a scientific investigation in their discipline in a rough 
topic exploration matrix. The aim is to let them look back on previous 
research experiences and have them translate these into the steps that 
must be followed in their own new research. It will turn out that the group 
already has a good sense of the core elements of research in their disci­
pline. The purpose of this inventory is to activate this knowledge.
	◦Group C: Ask these participants what can go wrong when doing an inves­
tigation in their discipline.
	◦Group D. The Machine Trick. See Chapter 3, Section 8.5. The aim is to find 
out what can best be done to make an investigation fail (Becker 1998: 39).
The groups write their findings on large Post-its. Then we cluster their findings. 
The interesting question is whether the findings revolve around the main ele­
ments of our programme.
5	 Break for lunch. The convener arranges the incoming Post-its.
6	 The core elements of the programme. Introduction by the teacher. As a 
­stepping-stone, the teacher comments on the main findings of the four issues 
when doing research and the building blocks of the Proposal Lab.
7	 Introduction by the teacher: On the way to a topic choice and proposal, see 
paragraph 1.2. The teacher presents the topic exploration and development 
of a research proposal as a quasi-research exercise as such. During this 
introduction, the teacher hands out a ‘best practice’ PhD proposal by one of 
their predecessors, to be skimmed by the participants. This is to give them a 
picture of what you expect them to have produced around 6–8 months later.
8	 In pairs, the participants individually complete the Rough Topic Exploration 
Matrix (see paragraph 4).
9	 In conclusion, you prepare your participants for the individual meetings you 
will have with them in 2 weeks. They will have completed or updated the 
Snapshot and the Rough Topic Exploration Matrix by then. In that individual 
session, you will discuss these documents with them. You offer them also 
some study recommendations regarding the timing of efforts in the coming 
months, the timely start with the searching and studying of the literature, 
and the exploration of who might act as their future supervisor.
1.2 Lecture suggestion: the development of a proposal as exploratory 
research
Reassurance
In Session 1 of our programme, we show the contours of the interim product 
that must be submitted after a few months (the Proposal Halfway) and the 
product, the PhD proposal. These products do not differ in terms of issues to be 
dealt with. We do not slowly but surely inform our students about what we 
82  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
expect at the end of the program. No, from day one we make clear to them what 
the product should look like and how all parts of the programme prepare them 
for a well-justified research plan.
Action
Preferably you present them with a proposal form. You can find an example 
in Appendix I. This document not only presents the outline of a proposal. We 
also present the rubrics on which a proposal is assessed.
You will see that these proposal components and the quality criteria corre­
spond to what is customary in the world of grant applications for research. 
You adjust the information to the specific requirements in your own situation. 
This session, you offer your participants a helicopter view on the proposal 
components. In the Session, you will go into the details.
Reassure your participants. They will feel overwhelmed by the information 
at this first meeting. Early September, I always tell them:. ‘At the end of Octo­
ber, you will feel a sense of panic ... you will wonder how the hell this should 
end ... but you must know that you will proudly hand in a first version a pro­
posal in April of the following year.’
To illustrate this, in this first session, you hand out an example, a good 
proposal made by someone else in an earlier programme. This illustrates how 
their predecessors have fared well.
In the continuation of this first session, we will present our travel guide. 
We go from station to station, accept nothing as already known or as a mat­
ter of course: the journey to a proposal.
Sudden genius doesn’t exist
In ‘Sudden Genius?’ Andrew Robinson (2010) describes ‘the gradual path to cre­
ative breakthroughs’. He analyses ten breakthroughs in the arts and sciences, 
from Leonardo da Vinci, via Marie Curie to Henri Cartier-Bresson. His study 
leads to the conclusion:
Among all the patterns observable in exceptional creativity, perhaps the 
most intriguing is the so-called ten-year rule of breakthroughs … it states 
that a person must persevere with learning and practising a craft or discipline 
for about ten years before he or she can make a breakthrough.
(ibid.: xxxiii)
By analogy, the chance that you will encounter a ‘sudden genius’ among your 
prospective PhD candidates, someone who contacts you with a fantastic PhD 
plan, is negligible. You may recognize a ‘born talent’ and at the end of your 
programme you will be able to distinguish ‘certain winners’. But none of 
your participants can come up with a good thesis plan on their own. None 
of them will know what is expected from him or her based on intuition. And you 
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  83
cannot assume that your participants just know how a literature review should 
be composed or what a research plan should look like. This is even more true 
for participants who have not studied at your faculty and who do not have, 
through careful attention and intuition, some idea of the local requirements set 
for a research plan. To rationalize the journey to a research plan, I have there­
fore presented the search for a research topic and plan as exploratory study. 
A good idea and a good plan do not come to us spontaneously but are created 
by a systematic approach. It all starts with a topic. Three starting positions are 
conceivable: (1) your participant already has a clear-cut idea about a subject; 
(2) the participant finds ten different topics interesting; or (3) the participant is 
still completely in the dark.
Types of topic exploration and the research file
The exploration of possible topics varies, depending on this starting situation. 
In the first place, I distinguish an exploration that can lead to a confirmation of 
the subject we are so enthusiastic about. We investigate the feasibility, the 
attractiveness (for example, has it been done before?), whether it can be guided 
and supported by a supervisor, and whether it connects with a research pro­
gramme in the faculty or research group. As a thought experiment, we also 
deliberately look for reasons why this is not a good topic. Thus, we avoid the 
pitfall of not looking for creative disagreement.
In addition, there is the pure exploration. We have no idea about a subject 
yet. How do we define such an exploration? Based on Stebbins (2001: 3), in this 
Proposal Lab I would define the exploration of possible research topics as a 
research exercise as such. The essentials of a research design apply:
•	 What is the main question you want to answer by the exploration?
•	 How are your interests embedded?
	◦in your study biography
	◦in your social interests and activities
	◦in the literature
	◦in the intellectual environment.
•	 Are you able to explain the relevance of the topic exploration for you and 
possible supervisors, in other words, can you explain your motivation?
•	 What information do you need to decide on the topic?
•	 Which methods will you use to collect that information?
•	 How will you report on a well-reasoned topic choice?
Which exploration techniques do you suggest to your students? It is wise to 
keep a ‘research file’. Wright Mills (1970) described this in his chapter, ‘On intel­
lectual craftmanship’. He suggests writing down anything that comes to mind 
about a potential topic in a research file and fill it with random ideas about 
subjects, newspaper or magazine clippings, notes from scholarly books and 
articles and snippets of conversations with people. If your participants are still 
84  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
considering different topics, let them keep different research files and write 
down their enthusiasm for a subject. If they keep such a diary for a few months 
and write down random ideas about the subjects, they will probably see what 
fascinates them time and time again and might possibly become a subject for 
their proposal. Through a regular re-reading of the notes, literature annotations 
and interview reports, they will discover lines and patterns, leading to a 
well-reasoned choice of subject.
Regarding the sources that we are going to consult, we have several options 
(Booth et al., 2016):
•	 finding what interests other researchers;
•	 skimming journals;
•	 asking questions suggested by sources (see, for example, the concluding 
discussion paragraph in many journal articles);
•	 talking with practitioners;
•	 browsing through textbooks and handbooks;
•	 attending lectures;
•	 asking colleagues about the most contested issues in the field;
•	 finding a relevant internet discussion list, browsing its archives, looking for 
matters of controversy or uncertainty;
•	 surfing the websites of departments at major universities.
Searching their interests, they can be led by a set of questions:
•	 What topics do you already know something about?
•	 What would you like to know more about? A place? A person? A time? An 
object? An idea? A process?
•	 Are you aware of a discussion about the issues that interest you?
•	 What issues have you debated with others, then found that you couldn’t back 
up your views?
•	 What issues do other people misunderstand?
•	 What topic is your supervisor working on? Would the supervisor like you to 
explore a part of it?
•	 Does your library have rich resources in some field?
It may happen that your participants return to you not with one subject but 
with seven. How then to make the final choice? Howard Becker (1986: 54) made 
a great suggestion for this:
Write whatever topic comes into your head, in no more than one or two sen­
tences. Few of you will get past twenty or twenty-five … before you will see 
that they share two or three central ideas, which are almost always varia­
tions on a common theme that interests you very much.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  85
Make your participants practise this type of exercise in an analysis of their 
own earlier papers and reports to see if there are core elements in their 
interests.
Various obstacles can arise in this topic exploration: the topic is too broad … 
we can’t find literature on our topic – we must broaden the search field … we 
can’t find a supervisor … our preferred topic has been done before … We can 
also encounter problems in the personal sphere. Preparing a thesis plan asks 
for a change of study style. We must shift from a more consumptive study atti­
tude to one where production and daring to rely on intuition and independence 
are central.
Managing the process
You also give your students some tips regarding the management of the process 
and their supervisor, as soon as it has become clear who would be the best 
candidate for the supervision. Here are some golden tips:
•	 Never show up without a suggestion from your side regarding topics you 
like to discuss with your supervisor or Lab convener.
•	 If you do produce something – pre-evaluate your work.
•	 Set an agenda for meetings with potential supervisors – make clear what 
you would like to discuss.
•	 Make an analysis of your meeting later: make notes and ask for comment.
•	 Make your planning obvious, distinguishing stages and products.
•	 Make your supervisor function better:
	◦Agree on written comments on you work.
	◦You make a report on the meeting.
	◦The quality of feedback is crucial.
You will come back to this in Chapter 4, Session 2 (Planning in practice), 
on p. 97. You will also find much more information in Chapter 3 (Sections 
5.2 and 5.3 on what supervisors and students expect from each other, on 
pp. 47–48).
For your students it will be a great relief to discover that you are 
fully aware of the complexities of this topic exploration phase. In the next 
part of Session 1, you will invite them to brainstorm about possible ­topics.
1.3 In-session activity: the first station, a rough topic exploration
In this programme, we do not assume that the participants have already chosen 
a topic for their research. In the first phase, we will support them in exploring 
their interests.
86  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Action
During the first meeting they will complete the Rough Topic Exploration Matrix 
in pairs. This means that the participants are already exchanging ideas about 
finding a topic and laying the foundation for the individual conversation with 
the Lab convener that will follow shortly. In Appendix E, you will find this text 
in matrix format, to be distributed to the participants during this first session. 
The core issue in the Rough Topic Exploration is the search for sources of 
inspiration:
•	 the student’s social interests;
•	 earlier products of study;
•	 meetings with peers;
•	 possible research environments;
•	 a literature search ‘light’;
•	 concrete cases or examples in the student’s fields of interest.
After this pairwise brainstorming, you invite your students to present one of 
their embryonic ideas: a topic they like to study, what they want to find out 
and how this might help others to understand the how and why of the issue.
1.4 Literature suggestions
For the participants, conveners and supervisors:
Booth et al. (2016)
Brewer (2007).
For conveners, supervisors (optional):
Wright Mills (1970)
Stebbins (2001)
Becker (1986; 1998).
2 The first individual feedback meeting: getting a 
feeling for your student’s qualities and interests
2.1 Preparation and implementation
Immediately after the first meeting, the conveners have individual feedback 
discussions with all students. It is a clever idea to always have these conversa­
tions with student duos. Students also learn a lot about what teachers and fel­
low student discuss with each other. Moreover, the person who is not ‘on the 
turn’ takes notes for the colleague. This changes after 30 minutes.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  87
This conversation focuses on two documents the students have sent to the 
teachers in advance:
•	 The Snapshot (a form that the student has completed before Session 1. In 
that document the student discusses their previous research activities, 
research interests, strengths, and weaknesses). See Appendix D.
•	 The Rough Topic Exploration Matrix (in the first meeting the student made 
notes about how they intend to approach the topic of the exploration). See 
Appendix E.
It is a nice idea to formulate the questions that the conveners should be able to 
answer after each interview:
1	 Has the student already chosen a definitive subject?
2	 Has the student decided on a specific disciplinary area within which a spe­
cific subject must be chosen?
3	 Is the issue of the subject completely open?
4	 Does the student have a clear picture of how to organize the topic explora­
tion?
5	 Does the student have a clear picture regarding people to consult? Is the 
student familiar with the library? (Check this especially in the case of new­
comers, international students.)
6	 Does the student already know which function to assign to the future pro­
posal? (Stand-alone exercise, preparation for Master’s thesis, PhD project or 
application elsewhere?)
7	 Does the student also focus on possibilities other than just the possibilities 
that your department offers to conduct the research in the future (as, or 
instead of, a PhD project)? In other words: is the student betting on multiple 
horses?
8	 Are there things that can hinder the writing of a good proposal?
9	 Are there students within the programme who can benefit a lot from each 
other in the further development of their research ideas?
It can be useful to make notes regarding these points.
2.2 Results
Here you will find some of my observations. In retrospect, the triad of Snap­
shot/Rough Topic Exploration Matrix/First Individual Feedback Meeting is of 
great value to get a picture of the strengths and weaknesses of the students 
early in the programme (see Table 4.1).
Of course, there is also the one student who does not mention any weakness. 
We will see.
88  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Table 4.1  Summary of students’ strengths and weaknesses
Topic
Strengths and weaknesses
Diversity
Consider in the further organization of your programme the 
great diversity of subjects your group of students wants to 
study. In the coming sessions it will be impossible to focus 
on a limited set of subjects or methodological options. 
Sometimes, people know which area they want to work in. 
Sometimes, several areas are being considered. Some are 
already quite certain about the subject they want to tackle. 
Others hesitate about two or three topics. Some might 
prefer a qualitative style of research, others feel 
themselves more at ease in a quantitative or experimental 
research design.
Misunderstandings
Here and there, the questions may arise among students 
whether a certain type of research or specific topic would 
be acceptable. They may assume certain research 
preferences on the part of the supervisors. That might be 
happening if they contact potential supervisors, but as a 
Lab convener your agenda is open.
Peer support 
Opportunities become visible for peer communications. 
For example, several students are interested in a similar 
subject. Students can also be important to each other 
because they have experiences in an area where a 
colleague wants to do research. 
A major shared 
problem: starting 
the investigation
Many cite finding a well-defined subject and key question 
as one of their main problems.
Differences in 
familiarity with a 
subject
You will meet students who are already familiar with a topic, 
have practical experiences, have previously written about it 
(for example, in the context of an earlier thesis), and those 
who are in an initial stage of subject demarcation.
Your impressions 
after this first 
feedback meeting
Probably, you will formulate some ‘working hypotheses’ as 
to the qualities of your students:
•	 There are candidates who inspire your trust because they 
are driven by a more demarcated subject and earlier 
study activities in the same area. 
•	 There are the candidates who convince you, but more on 
basis of their personal qualities than because of a grip 
on the subject or the trajectory that can lead to a choice.
•	 There are candidates who make a weak impression.
•	 There are candidates who are still question marks to you. 
Take care that these first impressions do not become a 
definitive judgement. Students in all categories can surprise 
you during your programme. 
(Continued)
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  89
2.3 Organizing the conversation
We distinguish two voices in the conversation. The student would like to know 
what we think about the subject or subjects. On our side, we want to form a 
picture of the student’s plan of action to come to a topic.
Topic
Strengths and weaknesses
Weaker qualities 
that students 
might mention in 
their self-
evaluation
1. Weak management qualities:
•	 weak time management;
•	 insufficient dealing with deadlines;
•	 the psychological background of these weaknesses 
(perfectionism as a theme!).
2. Difficulties in bringing order to their thoughts:
•	 difficulty putting ideas on paper;
•	 difficulties achieving a logical text;
•	 leaving limited time to write a paper.
3. Difficulties with focus, topic, main question:
•	 difficulty in defining a narrow enough topic or choosing 
a manageable subject;
•	 unable to narrow the research field;
•	 not knowing  how to start working on project;
•	 not finding a relevant research question;
•	 problem narrowing down the research question.
4. Perfectionism:
•	 not wanting to stop, there is always something to 
improve;
•	 ‘setting my bars very high, frustration in case of 
non-achievement of goals’;
•	 ‘unfinished work drives me crazy’;
•	 ‘after finishing a paper, suddenly being not very 
satisfied, reviewing at the last minute, my paper 
becoming incoherent’;
•	 ‘being a perfectionist, hard for me to judge a task as 
finished and to progress to the next one. Wasting 
time.’
•	 Over-exhaustiveness, for example, in a literature study.
5. Doubts about having control over the matter of study:
•	 problems with managing the amount of literature;
•	 having a lack of background knowledge;
•	 no in-depth knowledge of a major topic yet;
•	 difficulties in finding relevant sources.
6. Worries about qualities of judgement:
•	 lacking skills of judging.
7. Existential doubts about research qualities:
•	 do I possess the intellectual capacities to become a 
researcher?
Table 4.1  (Continued)
90  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
There is a danger that the Lab conveners and supervisors will flood the stu­
dent with suggestions if they feel that the student has no concrete ideas yet. 
They can be tempted to do so if the student has provided little information on 
paper, knows little to say in the conversation or is placing himself or herself in 
a passive position. The Lab conveners and supervisors can also end up in the 
strongly suggesting role if the student has very grand plans that call for speci­
fication.
In case of two conveners or supervisors being present, it is a good sign if 
they become enthusiastic, enter discussions with each other and produce 
countless suggestions. The student is on the way to an interesting topic. Yet in 
this case, we must remember that it is the student who soon will have to write 
a well-reasoned topic choice. It must remain their subject. The conversation 
can therefore get out of hand in two types of situations: (1) the teachers feel 
that they must save the student already from the very start; or (2) the teachers 
are so enthusiastic about the subject that they start overloading the student 
with all kinds of well-meant suggestions. This is the risk of taking over!
The interview can also have the function of helping the student prepare for 
a first interview with a possible supervisor. We can hold a mirror up to the stu­
dent, saying: ‘If you start the conversation in the same way as you do now, you 
will not get the best out of that conversation!’
The Rough Topic Exploration Matrix also shows whether students have an 
idea of who can function as a supervisor, aside from the Lab convener(s). The 
supervisors are the people who guide the student in the subject exploration and 
the writing of the final proposal.
The key point is that we must ensure that no ‘orphans’ walk around in our 
programme, students about whom nobody cares regarding the substance of 
their research interests.
2.4 The value of a typology
Would it be possible to design a typology of the students based on the Snapshot, 
the Rough Topic Exploration Matrix and the first Feedback interview? Could 
we already formulate indications as to what we can expect? The danger of this 
exercise is that we will act according to the first impressions and draw prema­
ture conclusions. However, these first impressions, working hypotheses as 
regards the student’s qualities, can enable us to support the student in a more 
focused way.
Alarming combinations of indicators can be:
•	 The student has an idea as to the area in which the candidate wants to move, 
AND does not mention a specific subject and reports a lack of work disci­
pline.
•	 The student has no concrete idea AND no concrete idea whom to approach 
AND is having difficulties in getting ideas down on paper.
•	 The student has no concrete idea AND doesn’t know whom to approach AND 
is completely passive in communication.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  91
•	 The student combines not having a topic idea AND a lack of work discipline.
•	 The student has no topic idea AND suffers from perfectionism.
•	 The student is panicking in uncertainty.
Even though we may be able to distinguish types of worry, there may also be 
one student’s prototype for whom we may have grand expectations:
Has already research experience + is reporting strength in structuring + has 
no time management problems + has at least an idea as to the area where 
one wants to be active (the subject can still come) + has a clear picture of 
the topic exploration approach + has an idea whom to contact.
2.5 Strong qualities of the students (self-reported)
In the Snapshot, the students also sketched a picture of the personal and intel­
lectual qualities that they consider to be the strongest. They feel that these are 
the essentials of bringing a research project to a successful conclusion!
Working attitude
•	 Motivation.
•	 Discipline; working attitude; thorough and precise; iron discipline; accuracy.
•	 Time management.
•	 Stamina; hard working; determined.
•	 Work ethics, finishing papers as early as possible.
•	 Exactness, secure nature; perfectionist, always trying to improve the results 
one has reached.
Good interaction with other researchers
•	 Reacting well to feedback; open to other opinions; open to constructive com­
ments/suggestions about their work, working attitude.
•	 Independent.
•	 Team worker.
Ability to structure and analyse
•	 Rapidly understanding core issue and inherent logic; differentiating key 
issues from side issues; analytical way of thinking; good analytical skills, 
ability to distinguish essentials from side issues.
•	 Structured and organized.
•	 Explains the matter in a clear and logical manner, reader can follow clear 
outline.
92  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Distance and critical capacity
•	 Capable of preventing their view dominating sound information from oth­
ers; can depict an objective picture of research object and findings.
•	 Critical way of looking at the subject.
•	 Loves the critical analysis of source material, the reading between the lines 
in texts.
Familiarity with research
•	 Research skills, research techniques, curiosity, knowledge of structuring 
scientific work; having conducted empirical research, interview skills; see­
ing and creating structure when doing research.
•	 Detailed and thorough in preliminary research.
•	 Heuristic research experience: using library and archival catalogues, bibli­
ographies, literary databases.
•	 Having produced interesting conclusions; having said something new in the 
researched area.
Ability to control information
•	 Ability to search for a variety of sources.
•	 Capable of taking in a heavy load of information without the risk of drown­
ing in it.
•	 Borrowing from different disciplines; finding sources, combining and using 
them; linking various sources of information.
Communicative qualities
•	 Language – clarity in writing and speech with respect to findings; ability to 
clearly formulate the ideas that one has in mind; writing skills; writing style 
that has been complimented.
2.6 Aftercare
It is conceivable that the teachers become worried during this meeting about 
the grip a student has on the trajectory that should lead to a topic choice a cou­
ple of months after the start of our programme. In some cases, it is wise to 
make a check with the student some time after this first feedback meeting. It is 
important not to assume that after this first meeting, they understand exactly 
what is expected from them. And do not be fooled by the desire to ‘keep up 
appearances’, pretending to know what is expected, on the student’s part during 
that first meeting.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  93
3 Session 2: meeting and interviewing researchers 
and planning the proposal
3.1 Pre-session assignment
Reading literature on structured interviewing (for example, Bryman, 2008).
Pre-session assignment: preparing interview questions for interviewing peer 
and draft of an email for interviewing experts and supervisors.
3.2 Script for Session 2
•	 Part one (morning): researchers in action: Your colleagues [x] and [y] will 
introduce several types of research in your discipline. They will use exam­
ples of their own research or projects by close colleagues. We will see how 
the biographies of the research projects look, the problems that occurred 
and how they were overcome. Your students will get the opportunity to ask 
questions.
•	 Part two (afternoon): preparing the interview with experts, peers and poten­
tial supervisors. We will focus on the preparation of interviews that the stu­
dents will have as part of their topic exploration. We are asking the students 
to prepare this part of the session by doing some homework and to inter­
view each other.
•	 Part three: planning the road to the proposal. You will finish this session with 
a sketch of the different stages of a proposal development and its planning.
3.3 Session 2 part one: Researchers in action
Having listened to the research experiences as presented by two of your col­
leagues you have invited, the students are challenged to analyse if and how 
your colleagues have dealt with the essentials of doing research as presented in 
session one.
Action
Invite your participants to write down their main impressions from your col­
leagues’ introductions. They can use the following checklist for this. They 
write down their main points in a 5-minute paper. Then you discuss the most 
important observations in the presence of your colleagues:
•	 clarity as regards the position of the subject of research in the field of 
study (embedding in the discipline, engagement with earlier research);
•	 substantiating that the research problem has not yet been answered 
satisfactorily;
94  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 proving that answering the research problem is worthwhile in that it con­
tributes to science and/or society (relevance);
•	 presence of a good leading research question and set of sub-questions;
•	 the role of propositions, hypotheses or claims in the research;
•	 well-founded choice in favour of one or more specific research functions: 
describing, comparing, defining, evaluating, explaining, designing;
•	 clear definition of the data needed to answer the research question(s);
•	 well-reasoned choice of methods for the collection of the data.
3.4 Session 2 part two: Interviewing experts, peers and potential 
supervisors
Organization of this part of the session
This part of the meeting is meant to make students somewhat familiar with 
interviewing people who can help them explore possible topics for the research 
proposal to be written later. In preparation, the students read a methodological 
introduction in semi-structured interviewing, for example, Bryman (2008: 
Chapter 8) or one of the countless internet sources. This part of the session is 
completed with the preparation of questions that can be used to interview 
experts and staff members who can potentially guide the student in developing 
the research proposal.
Preparatory actions
•	 You have asked them to bring a set of questions that will lead to in-class 
interviewing a peer about their strategies in finding a research topic.
•	 They have also prepared this second session by sending one week before a 
draft of an email message in which the student invites a scholar, potential 
supervisor, practitioner or other expert to be interviewed. The student must 
introduce himself or herself and the aim of the request, next to presenting a 
limited set of questions to be dealt with in the interview.
Action
In the first part of the afternoon session, the students will practise by inter­
viewing each other about the topic exploration. The students will split up into 
subgroups, consisting of three persons. They will have 1½ hours for inter­
viewing, being interviewed and observing the interview. You distribute a set of 
criteria for evaluating the qualities of interviewer and interview (see Appendix 
L, Section 1). Per half hour the order will be as follows:
A interviews B for 20 minutes. C is the observer and evaluates the 
interview.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  95
C will comment on the interview and B can also bring in observations. 
10 minutes are available for this evaluation.
After 30 minutes, the interviewing restarts. For example, C interviews A 
and B will be the evaluator. Because the students all must practise the 
three distinct roles, they must be strict in keeping to the time schedule.
After 1½ hours, you and the students will start a discussion of the interview 
with their (potential) supervisor or another expert. The students bring their draft 
of an email invitation to the session. You will give an introduction of the types 
of questions that can be asked and the best way to organize the interview.
Collectively, you and the students will check whether their provisional set of 
questions has the potential to get the best information out of their interviewee.
Action
It works very well to see an interviewer in action. Before or during Session 2, 
invite one of your students to interview one of their colleagues about the 
exploration of a topic and the attractiveness of a provisional topic the student 
has in mind. The other students are the observers and will give feedback (and 
learn a lot from their courageous fellow students).
Your suggestions for good interviewing
The interviews contributed the most to my big step forward. Not because the inter­
viewees told me what to do, but because they showed me the weaknesses in my 
ideas and promoted the good parts.
(former student A.B.)
You start by explaining the function of interviewing others during this topic 
exploration. Your students will be inspired by meeting the outside world and 
learning that others are interested in the topics they are considering. Others 
can confirm the importance of a topic and brainstorm with the interviewer 
about a ‘plan of attack’ if several topics are considered. It will teach your stu­
dents that there are others who are active in their field of interest. In some 
respects, it can prevent them from ‘re-inventing the wheel’. They can test the 
attractiveness of the topics they are considering. You suggest to them also to 
meet several potential supervisors, without putting the supervision as such on 
the interview agenda. Your students will discover if there is a clear click 
between them and a potential supervisor, in terms of personality and substan­
tive interests. If that is the case, they can discuss with you the invitation of that 
colleague to be their supervisor during the further exploration of the topic and 
the writing of the research proposal.
96  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Interview guide
Your students have prepared this session 
by reading a thorough introduction in the 
art of interviewing. They are aware of the 
importance of preparing a sound interview 
guide that will lead them through the inter­
view, in accordance with the goals of the 
interview.
It will help your students if you are out­
spoken about the best way to show their 
eagerness and leadership. They must have 
a fine feeling for the flow of the interview, 
the rhythm: formulate leading questions, 
follow-up questions and probing questions 
in reserve. 
Your most important recommendation: 
‘You are a passionate young researcher, 
not a student who must do an assign­
ment.’
You can specify your suggestions 
because you have read their draft of an 
email invitation to somebody they want to 
interview.
•	 ‘Assertiveness or helplessness, that’s the question’.
•	 Show openness in thinking. Invite the interviewee to challenge you.
•	 Be clear about your earlier topic experiences, the foundations of your 
interest.
•	 Show your feeling for discussions among experts.
•	 Be explicit about the importance of the interviewee.
•	 In your email invitation, offer to send a set of detailed questions in advance.
•	 Golden trick: always present a dyad of a question and a ‘bid’ (for example, a 
carefully formulated possible answer to your question).
•	 Formulate a clear position, something you don’t know or understand.
•	 Formulate intriguing issues, puzzles, fascination, research interest.
•	 Show your familiarity with the publications and the work of your inter­
viewee.
•	 Show you are starting to get a grip on the literature.
•	 Formulate complexities and difficulties.
•	 Formulate a conceptual problem. What would you like to understand better 
after the research is complete?
You may tell them what you would do if you were in your student’s position:
Possible interview topics
•	 What does your respon­
dent know about your 
field or topic?
•	 What are or have been your 
respondent’s 
research 
activities in the field or 
regarding the topic you are 
considering?
•	 What does the interviewee 
see 
as 
important 
to 
research?
•	 What does the interviewee 
expect with respect to 
topic developments?
•	 What does the interviewee 
want to study?
•	 What does the interviewee 
want a young researcher 
to research?
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  97
•	 Make a sharp formulation of what you want to gain from the interview.
•	 Make yourself familiar with the interviewee (read their publications!) and 
the literature.
•	 Do record the interview and make a selective transcription.
•	 Have a pilot interview with a peer.
•	 Prepare for unexpected interviewee behaviour. The interviewee might 
change the roles, asking you: ‘What do YOU think about ...?’
•	 No typing errors in the email. Check the English.
•	 Start snowballing by asking whom else to contact, what else to read.
•	 Write a report on the interview and ask the interviewee to check it.
•	 Do make transcription or report immediately after the interview.
•	 Make maximum use of the interview while writing a well-reasoned topic 
choice.
3.5 Session 2 part three: Planning in practice, the 8 months of the 
proposal preparation
In your introduction, you explain the process-based nature of the development 
of the proposal:
The Proposal as process (taking, for example, 6–8 months)
•	 The proposal will have several versions, several stages.
•	 Priority is to start with searching [20] essential texts regarding your provi­
sional topic.
•	 Formulate the first version of a leading research question.
•	 Search for and read a book about the research design in your discipline.
•	 Review the literature you found and develop questions version 2.
•	 Do study good practices (proposals written by earlier students).
•	 Proposal a quarter of the way: discuss it with peers, supervisors and your 
Proposal Lab convener.
•	 Proposal Halfway, first version, meeting with supervisor.
•	 Versions 2 and 3.
•	 Handing in final version of Proposal Halfway.
•	 Handing in Final Proposal (the 90 per cent okay version).
The participants must not only plan a future PhD trajectory, but also its prepa­
ration. The Gantt chart in Figure 4.1 shows an example of the planning of a PhD 
proposal. This planning assumes that participants also have other (study) 
activities. If they can work full-time on the proposal, the 8-month period can be 
reduced. However, it is important that the period contains sufficient moments 
of reflection and possibilities for revision of the work in progress.
98  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
A special point of attention regarding the literature review. If enough time is 
taken for this, this not only creates an important building block for the pro­
posal. With a good literature review, an important draft text is written for the 
future thesis or its components if the PhD candidate starts drafting a thesis 
based on articles. Of course, this first literature review is a draft. Over the com­
ing years, colleagues will publish articles and books that must be incorporated 
into an updated version of the literature review.
Explanation
•	 The Snapshot: the document that the participants produce or have already 
produced in view of the admission to your programme. They outline their 
initial ideas about a possible investigation. Early in the programme they will 
discuss this text and the Rough Topic Exploration Matrix (see Session 1 of 
the Proposal Lab) with you in the first individual feedback meeting.
Figure 4.1  Example of a proposal planning (10 months available)
Task
Sept
Oct
Nov
Dec
Jan
Feb
Mar
Apr
May
June
Snapshot
x
x
Literature search 
training
x
Literature search
x
x
x
x
x
x
x
Literature review
x
x
Formulating 
research question, 
embedded in 
study of literature
x
x
Well-reasoned 
topic choice
x
x
Literature search 
report
x
x
Interviewing 
experts and 
writing interview 
report
x
x
x
x
Finding 
supervisors
x
x
x
x
Meeting 
supervisors
x
x
x
x
x
x
Proposal Halfway
x
x
x
Final proposal
x
x
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  99
•	 Search training: education and guidance in finding the most important liter­
ature.
•	 The literature review: the text in which the most important literature on the 
participant’s research topic is displayed and critically commented on.
•	 Question and embedding: the formulation of the main question of the 
research and its relationship with existing scientific insights.
•	 Well-reasoned topic choice: the paper in which the participant makes the 
subject choice known.
•	 Literature search report: the text in which the participant reports on the 
search for the most important literature.
•	 Interviewing and report: the participant is motivated to have conversations 
with experts in the specific field of research during the search process. 
Based on these discussions, the participant determines which scientists can 
be the best supervisors for the PhD trajectory (Finding a supervisor). It is 
therefore not assumed that these supervisors are there from the very begin­
ning. As soon as the participant and supervisor(s) have found each other, 
the supervisor will naturally play a crucial role in the further development 
of the research ideas.
•	 Proposal Halfway: approximately halfway, the participant writes the first 
fully-fledged draft of a proposal for the doctoral research. This is the subject 
of feedback from fellow Proposal Lab participants, the Lab convener, and 
the potential supervisors of the PhD research.
Action
After you have explained the importance of planning and presented the plan­
ning of activities in the coming year, you invite your students to do an exer­
cise in planning, leading to a well-reasoned topic choice. The activities figure 
in the Gantt chart that you will find in Appendix F, Table 6.4.
3.6 Post-session assignment: two interviews and two interview reports
Action
The students will interview two experienced researchers about their topic. 
One of them might be their future supervisor. Explain to your students that in 
the interview they should avoid talking about the possibility of the interviewee 
becoming their supervisors of the project. One of the functions of the inter­
view is to see if there is a click between the interviewer and the possible 
supervisor. If this proves not to be the case and the supervision has already 
been the subject of discussion, it is extremely difficult for the student to 
retract the suggestion.
100  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Action
Your students will write a report on at least two of the interviews they will 
have. The components of the report are:
1	 The two interview guides (maximum two pages in total).
2	 Two brief reports on the substance, the major results, of the interviews 
(maximum two x three pages.).
3	 Two notes on how the interviews went, where they took place and whether 
they opened new avenues of interest.
The students will send you the interview report ultimately [to be decided by 
the convener]. You can read the details of the report format and suggestions 
for evaluating an interview report in Appendix L, Section 1.
3.7 Literature suggestions
Bryman (2008: Chapter 18), ‘Interviewing in qualitative research’.
Gosling and Noordam (2006: Chapter 6), ‘Charting your progress month by 
month’.
4 Session 3: the PhD proposal
4.1 Script for Session 3
Pre-session activities
Reading Brewer (2007: 79–93): ‘The Research Proposal’.
Reading Watts (2001): ‘The Holy Grail: In Pursuit of the Dissertation Proposal’.
Reading two proposals, written by predecessors.
Reading rubrics for the evaluation of proposals (see Appendix G, Section 2).
Introducing the research proposal and its quality criteria
Early in the programme we will discuss in detail what the result of the students’ 
work should look like. All sections of the proposal are related to the parts of 
our programme. In the first meeting we gave a brief introduction to the pro­
posal. In Session 3 we go into the details.
The explanation of the proposal format functions as a map, as a compass. 
The explanation shows the context of everything we are going to teach the 
students. Brewer’s (2007) chapter on the Research Proposal is a good introduc­
tion. He also makes an interesting suggestion that you can consider. In addition 
to the proposal, he suggests providing an overview of the chapters the student 
expects to be contained in the thesis.
In this third session we will discuss the components of the proposal in detail, 
next to an explanation of the quality criteria that will apply. It may be best to 
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  101
explain the proposal early in the programme but return to it once the actual 
writing has started and implementation issues can be discussed.
In-session activity
After this introduction, the students will discuss two proposals sent to them 
before the session. They will do so based on the quality criteria – the rubrics – 
they also have received earlier.
4.2 Your explanation of the components of a PhD proposal
See Appendix I where this proposal information is presented in form format.
1	 Title of the research project
2	 The abstract: Usually, this part of a proposal is called The Abstract. In this 
case, it should be between 200 and 250 words long (usually 100–150 words), 
or as short as possible without omitting essential information or endanger­
ing its accuracy. It should state:
	◦what is presented, theorized, studied;
	◦the purpose and context of the research;
	◦theories used to explain what will be reported;
	◦the hypotheses, which will be evaluated, and/or the leading research 
question and the sub-questions which the research project will attempt to 
answer;
	◦what the sample(s) or units/subjects of study will be;
	◦how data will be collected and analysed (the research methods used);
	◦the relevance of the research project to the field of study.
3	 The research question
a.	 Description of the field of study and the existing body of knowledge with 
reference to that. What don’t we know and understand? What has been 
neglected? What is the central object of the proposed research? And what 
is the research objective? You challenge your students to try as hard as 
they can to formulate their research interests in terms of a conceptual 
problem, in terms of what we do not know or understand, in terms of 
something that we want to make understandable for others.
Explanation
This part of the proposal is directly inspired by what the students have read 
in the literature, the interviews they held, the meetings they had with their 
(possible) supervisor, and what they will write down in the Critical Appraisal 
Assignment (Session 6 and Appendix L, Section 3) and Question Practicum 
(see Appendix K). The processing of all this information will have a place in 
their well-reasoned topic choice. Your students can be sure that those texts 
contain sentences they are pleased with, expressing exactly where they want 
to focus on.
102  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
b.	 The core question. Which central question would your student like to 
answer with the research? How does he or she unfold the central question 
into sub-questions, so that the joint answers will generate the answer to 
the central question?
Explanation
Let the students start with their research objective, for which purpose they 
will gather and analyse the data. Next, make them take provisional decisions 
about the type of research questions they want to answer (in correspondence 
with the research objective). Remember the core qualities of good questions 
as explained by Bryman (2008):
•	 The question must be clear, researchable.
•	 There should be literature on which you can draw to help illuminate how 
your research question should be approached.
•	 There is the prospect of being able to make a contribution – however small 
– to the field of expertise on the topic.
•	 It should be neither too broad nor too narrow.
The questions should have a steering function, indicating what different types 
of knowledge are required and what material needs to be gathered (Verschuren 
and Doorewaard, 2005).
4	 The innovative character of the proposed project
What is the significance of the proposed research? Does it contain an original 
contribution to the field of existing knowledge? Is it of specific social or theo­
retical relevance?
5	 Considerations regarding theory and prior empirical research
Sketch of the dominant theoretical approaches and debates. Sketch of the 
dominant empirical findings. How does your student’s research fit in with the 
present state of research and theoretical discussions in your field? Which schol­
ars are especially relevant to your student’s work?
The foundation for all this information is lying in the student’s literature 
search, literature notes, critical appraisal and literature review, for example:
In view of this assignment, I used the following working definition of theory. 
‘A theory is a collection of well-motivated, disciplinary, embedded and 
researchable propositions/theses that try to explain or try to understand, for 
example, the existence or non-existence of …, the similarities and differ­
ences between A&B …, the (in)effectiveness of a …, the plausibility of a 
future development, etc.’
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  103
6	 Proposition, hypotheses and concepts
What is the central proposition? Your argument? What are the working hypoth­
eses? What are the main theoretical concepts you intend to use?
Explanation
In this part of the proposal, your students formulate their propositions and 
hypotheses they want to evaluate in their project.
Think of Turabian (2007: 50), who describes the initial stages of research 
as finding a question and imagining a tentative answer, i.e., the working 
hypothesis.
Or look at the definition given in the Oxford Dictionary of Psychology (Col­
man, 2009): ‘Hypothesis. A tentative explanation for a phenomenon, subject 
to criticism by rational argument and refutation by empirical evidence.’
And, especially, read the very inspiring chapters by Booth et al. (2016) on 
‘Making Good Arguments and Making Claims’. 
It is important to recognize that research does not always have to be 
based on theoretical assumptions, (working) hypotheses or claims. The 
research can also aim to formulate a theory based on empirical material. 
Such an approach was developed in the social sciences by Glaser and Strauss 
(2009) via the method of the so-called Grounded Theory.
7	 The data and methods
In this part of the proposal, the empirical data, the sources, the documents to 
be used to answer each of the research questions are mentioned. How do your 
students intend to gather their data? Do they have whatever permission might 
be required? Have the necessary informants agreed to co-operate? Do they 
have access to the sources they need?
We finish this information about what we expect halfway through the pro­
gramme with some strategic suggestions for the students.
“Provide concise and clear answers, based on the ideas and information you 
have halfway on the journey to a PhD Proposal, i.e. the Proposal Halfway. If 
new data and theoretical insights become available, you may have other ideas 
and your plans may change accordingly. We will discuss your Proposal Half­
way in a face-to-face meeting. After another 3 months you will hand in the Final 
Proposal”.
8	 The planning of the 4 year dissertation project
In some situations, the candidates are asked to enclose with the proposal a 
schedule for the 4 years that a PhD project usually takes. The participants in the 
104  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Proposal Lab or the individual proposal preparers can use two appendices for 
this purpose: Appendix O. ‘Planning matrix PhD trajectory (research and other 
activities)’; and Appendix N. ‘Expectations in View of a 4 Year PhD Project’.
The overview has been composed based on advice by supervisors working 
in the technical and educational disciplines. It must be adapted to the require­
ments of your own discipline and field of research.
4.3 Quality criteria that will apply to the Proposal Halfway and the Final 
Proposal
Appendix G contains the rubrics that are helpful to students in getting a grasp 
on the criteria that apply to the assessment of a PhD proposal and the result of 
a PhD trajectory, the thesis.
We worked in our Proposal Lab with rubrics such as those developed in 2007 
by our colleague Heinze Oost and elaborated by Rob van Gestel and Hans 
Sonneveld.
4.4 special case: originality and relevance
Thesis plans will be assessed on several qualities by future supervisors, admis­
sion committees or committees that award subsidies. In What is Originality in 
the Humanities and the Social Sciences? Guetzkow, Lamont and Mallard 
(2004) show what the dominant assessment criteria are in the committees that 
must assess research proposals. Their research focused on the humanities and 
social sciences. However, the results of this research also apply to other disci­
plines. In their research, six criteria turned out to be dominant in the quality 
assessment of a research proposal: (1) clarity; (2) ‘quality’ (in all its different 
operationalizations); (3) originality; (4) significance; (5) methods; and (6) fea­
sibility.
In one part of your programme, you will pay attention to the originality of 
the thesis plan your students are developing. This criterion is often one they 
fear. By intuition, they feel that in a PhD project the evaluators of their pro­
posal often will judge their plans on this criterion. Your students blow this crite­
rion up to mythological proportions and have no idea how to give it hands and 
feet. The research of Guetzkow et al. (2004) can bring a lot of peace and allay 
the students’ fears. These authors show that in the assessors’ practice many 
definitions of originality arise. In an overview they show 28 types of originality. 
They distinguish seven main types of originality that can be operationalized 
further: (1) an original approach; (2) an understudied area; (3) an original 
topic; (4) an original theory; (5) an original method; (6) original data; and (7) 
original results (ibid.: 197).
Your students can specify these main types of originality by asking them­
selves questions such as: will I formulate new questions? Will I study aspects of 
my topic that have been understudied until now? Will I bring together theoreti­
cal insights in an unexpected way? Will I combine methods in an unexpected 
way? Most likely, their topic is already original just because they will be col­
lecting new data and providing new insights.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  105
Explain to your participants that supervisors can have a one-sided perspec­
tive on what constitutes an original study. For example, they may be of the 
opinion that originality must always be linked to new theoretical insights and 
have an insufficient eye for originality in the form of researching an understud­
ied sector or subject with existing theoretical insights.
Action
After your introduction and explanation of this criterion, you can ask your 
students to indicate in which respect their topic might be original. The over­
view of Guetzkow et al. (2004) can help them answer that question. Invite 
them to read their article, available on the internet as an open-source docu­
ment:
(https://www.researchgate.net/publication/241644109_What_Is_
Originality_in_the_Social_Sciences_and_the_Humanities).
It makes sense to discuss this aspect of the forthcoming proposal again 
after they have got a grip on the literature available on their subject.
In this context, it may also be useful to address the issue of the relevance 
of the proposed research: the consequences in terms of understanding a 
phenomenon or its societal consequences, and its impact on our academic 
world and the broader world around us.
It is best to discuss again originality and relevance with the students after 
the sessions on the literature search and literature review and before submit­
ting the proposal halfway. Then they will be more capable of evaluating their 
own subject in the making against the different definitions of originality and 
relevance.
4.5 Application of insights, in-session assignment
Two weeks before this meeting, you will have sent your students the Appendix 
G ‘Rubrics for evaluating the proposal qualities’ and two proposals, written by 
earlier participants in your programme.
Action
You invite the students to discuss the qualities of the proposals in sub-groups 
and to report their main conclusion in the plenary session.
4.6 Post-session assignment
Your participants write a reflection paper on the implications of the literature 
study, your introductions, proposals they have read, and what they have heard 
106  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
from colleagues for themselves and the deliberations with their supervisor. 
They will send you a copy of this reflection paper for feedback.
5 Session 4: searching for the important literature
5.1 Introduction
Much of the topic exploration deals with written sources. Which researchers 
have made the trip in this area before? What have they written about it? What 
were their main findings? And what suggestions for research do they make? 
The participants in your Proposal Lab will be aware of their closest colleagues, 
get a grip on what is already known and develop a feeling for the hot issues in 
their research niche. The central question is whether the students will be able 
to substantiate the importance of their research in the proposal.
Finding the most important literature is a dialectical process. The students 
will start with an embryonic research interest, will search for the associated 
literature, and will subsequently adjust or drop the subject and will again search 
for literature and start the cycle again.
5.2 Script of the session
Part one (morning)
•	 introduction of quality criteria that apply to positioning oneself within the 
discipline;
•	 introduction to literature search strategies by you or librarians in your faculty;
•	 report by a PhD candidate on their literature search experiences;
•	 practice in literature search.
Part two (afternoon)
•	 introduction of the most important principles of engaging the existing 
knowledge;
•	 discussion of The Disciplinary Embedding Assignment (see Appendix J on 
p. 184);
•	 discussion of two thesis summaries, with a focus on evaluating the quality of 
the disciplinary embedding.
5.3 Pre-session assignment and preparation 
Reading before the fourth meeting: the literature
Aveyard (2007: Chapters 1–4). These chapters deal with topics such as:
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  107
•	 Why do a literature review?
•	 Determining which literature is important for the student’s project.
•	 The connection between research question and literature search.
•	 How to search for the literature.
One of the most important messages from Aveyard’s book can be a great 
comfort to your students: it is important to have a research question that is 
neither too comprehensive nor too restricted:
Ideally you will retrieve 10–20 references that are well focused on your topic 
… It would be difficult to address your research question with fewer refer­
ences, but you would be inundated with literature if many more references 
were identified.
(Aveyard 2008: 66)
Reading before the fourth meeting
Two thesis summaries
Pre-session literature search assignment
You show your students the way to the websites leading to the most important 
journals in view of their research.
Action
You ask them to prepare individually a brief note (Appendix J, The Disciplinary 
Embedding Assignment) containing the following information:
•	 formulation of their provisional research topic;
•	 an overview of journals they wish to consult with respect to their research 
topic, mentioning the title of the journals and the motivation of their 
choice;
•	 any problems they have met in this exercise.
Make them aware of the fact that journals in other languages than English are 
also an option, and do not forget journals in other disciplines.
Let them send this note to the library specialists and to you, some days 
before the fourth meeting. See Section 5.5 of this session for more 
information.
5.4 Your introduction: quality criteria that apply to the literature review
Before introducing the literature search strategies, you contextualize them by 
introducing the criteria that will be used by the reviewers of the proposal.
108  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Here you will find the rubric formulated in view of the positioning of one’s 
research within the discipline.
Rubric
Rubric for the argument for the newsworthiness, theoretical and/or practical 
or social relevance, and scope of the research problem (originality, relevance).
1=	 Lack of justification/justification section lacking an arguable position in 
outline. 
2=	 Justification arguing for the newsworthiness and relevance of the research 
problem, needing greater care in documenting sources, greater effort in 
organizing the text and/or a deeper level of analysis. 
3=	 Selective literature review adequately substantiating that the research 
problem has not yet been answered sufficiently (newsworthiness) and 
contributes to science (theoretical relevance) and/or society (practical/
social relevance). Information on the scope of the research problem may 
be limited. 
4=	 Selective and critical literature review effectively substantiating that the 
research problem has not yet been answered sufficiently (newsworthi­
ness) and contributes to science (theoretical relevance) and/or society 
(practical/social relevance). Information on the scope of the research 
problem may be limited. 
5=	 Selective and critical literature review effectively substantiating that the 
research problem has not yet been answered sufficiently (newsworthi­
ness), contributes to science (theoretical relevance) and/or society (prac­
tical/social relevance), and cannot yield more information, given the 
subject, conditions and the research context (scope). Clear information 
on the scope of the research, clearly showing ‘the bigger story’ behind 
the specific topic.
5.5 Introduction and practicum in search strategies: part one 
of Session 4
Introduction part one: the library specialists
Preferably, this part of the session is organized by you in collaboration with 
specialists from your library who have a good grip on the relevant literature 
for your students and have considerable expertise in doing a literature search. 
The library specialists start with an explanation of the most important aspects 
of a literature search and their observations vis-à-vis the notes sent by the 
students to the librarians and the Lab convener. Components of the introduc­
tion are:
•	 knowing the importance of a systematic approach to the literature review;
•	 distinguishing several alternative methods of searching the literature:
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  109
	◦snowball sampling: finding literature by using a key document as a start­
ing point, consulting the bibliography in the key document (book or jour­
nal article) to find other relevant titles, and again studying the 
bibliographies of these new publications to find more relevant titles;
	◦scrutinizing reference lists of key articles;
	◦author searching.
•	 recording the search strategy and writing down the strengths and limita­
tions of the strategy;
•	 reading abstracts to identify the relevance of an article or book;
•	 knowing the principles of a critical appraisal of the literature found.
Introduction part two: the fellow PhD candidate
We can facilitate the transition from expert information to application by hav­
ing a PhD candidate, who previously has attended our programme, report on 
the experiences with the literature search. Marnix was close to our partici­
pants, and they did not shy away from asking questions that they thought were 
‘stupid’. He illustrated his literature search experiences with his own uncertain­
ties, crashes and successes within the context of a research project that came 
close to the students’ interests. He was one of them.
Literature search in practice
Action
After this introduction, the meeting turns into a practicum. The students will 
open the journal websites and apply the search principles that have been 
explained by you or the librarians, in combination with the insights they 
gained by reading the relevant literature. This part of the meeting ends with 
an exchange of experiences and questions answered by you or the librarians.
5.6 Disciplinary embedding and engaging the literature: part two of 
Session 4
Preparatory practical exercise by the students
Ideally, this second part of Session 4 starts after a break upon finishing the 
morning session. This applies to a one-day programme during which both the 
search techniques and the issue of disciplinary embedding are dealt with. Of 
course, you may decide to spread these topics over two days.
Students have prepared this part of the session by way of some homework. 
They have sent the results of their homework to you before the meeting. This 
will enable you to get a grip on any problems they have found. The instruction 
reads as follows (see Appendix J):
110  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
In preparation for the session on Disciplinary Embedding, you will write down 
your research area, a specific research theme and your provisional research 
topic. In this assignment, we ask you to try and fill out a complete ‘specifi­
cation’. Please write down your specification on this form. Try to follow the 
specification steps of:
•	 discipline;
•	 disciplinary sub-field;
•	 your theme;
•	 essential ‘others’ (fellow researchers);
•	 their debates;
•	 remaining questions (in your view, in the opinion of other authors);
•	 your niche for doing something relevant, original;
•	 theoretical anchor points, as offered by other authors;
•	 your subject.
If your subject is located at the meeting point of several disciplines, first 
clarify which disciplines are involved and how your research is anchored in 
those disciplines. If you will be working in more than one discipline, you will 
do the specification two times. Find out if researchers work at the meeting 
point of two or more disciplines on a subject that overlaps with your own 
interest.
We realize that the following subjects can lead to headaches:
•	 the debates of essential others (in view of your research theme or 
topic), their creative agreements, their creative disagreements …);
•	 their theories (theoretical, analytical, interpretative, explanatory frame­
works) of relevance for the theme under study;
•	 remaining questions, research issues (in your view, in the opinion of 
other authors).
You may keep these in reserve for our meeting a couple of months later 
when we will discuss your well-reasoned topic choice. But if you dare to give 
it a try already now, we will gladly give feedback!
Preparatory reading by the students
Before the meeting, you have invited your students to read some texts. 
First, there are two chapters in Booth et al. (2016): Chapter 5, ‘From Prob­
lems to Sources’ and Chapter 6, ‘Engaging the Sources’. It is wise to discuss 
the main points of Booth or a similar text with your students in your own 
introduction.
You have sent your students the summaries of two theses that have been 
defended successfully and the rubrics for evaluating the strengths and 
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  111
weaknesses of the literature review (see Appendix J, ‘The Disciplinary Embed­
ding Assignment’). You have invited them to evaluate these summaries and to 
bring their main conclusions to the meeting.
In-session activities
You start the session with your introduction of the most important principles of 
engaging the existing knowledge. Below you will find some building blocks I 
always incorporated in my own teaching.
Zooming in
Initially, students will encounter a multi­
tude of articles and books in their litera­
ture search. An important aspect of the 
search is an increasingly sharp focus on 
the small group of texts and authors 
that are relevant to the student’s 
research. We will arrive at the 15–20 
texts and authors predicted by Aveyard 
(2008).
The essentials of disciplinary embedding
You explain to your students why a good literature review is so important for a 
good research design. The researchers become aware of their closest col­
leagues, get a grip on what is already known and develop a feeling for the hot 
issues in this research niche. In our Proposal Lab we try to make the student 
develop a starting point, a question in which the student is interested, as early 
as possible.
We do not offer the students a poisoned cup by letting them read 
mountains of literature at random. On the contrary, the student starts with 
a roadmap, a compass, a direction ... which is refined and adjusted while 
studying. This means that we question the students about this initial interest 
upon admission to the programme. ‘I just enjoy doing research, 
but I don’t know yet on what’ is not a basis for participation in the Proposal 
Lab.
Zooming in
•	 Searching 
and 
selecting 
essential journals and books 
from your total reading list.
•	 Finding 
15–20 
essential 
texts.
•	 Critically appraising these 
articles and books.
•	 Try out: Writing an extract of 
a literature review (based on 
five texts).
•	 Writing a condensed version 
of the review, as part of the 
research proposal.
112  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
This approach is in line with Craig Loehle’s advice (Loehle, 2010):
•	 Work on your idea first, then com­
pare it to the existing literature;
as opposed to:
•	 desperately seeking a topic in the lit­
erature.
What your students produce during 
your programme will be of great value 
when it comes to a PhD project. The 
definitive version of their review, sup­
plemented and amended, will be used 
in their thesis. In a thesis, there are sev­
eral options for positioning the litera­
ture review: (1) as part of an extensive 
introduction; (2) as a separate chapter; 
(3) as a starting paragraph of each 
chapter, especially in the case of a the­
sis based on articles.
Using secondary sources
Again, the work of Booth (Booth et al., 2016: Chapter 6, ‘Engaging sources’) 
can be a major source of inspiration. In summary, he suggests the 
following approaches I always presented in my own introductions on this 
topic:
1	 Using sources for creative agreement:
•	 Offering additional support to a source’s claim.
•	 Confirming unsupported claims.
•	 Applying a claim more widely.
2	 Looking for creative disagreement:
•	 Challenging that x is a kind of y.
•	 Showing that source mistakes can be made in the following:
	◦how parts of something are related;
	◦the origin and development of a topic;
	◦a causal relationship.
•	 Contradicting a standard view of things, urging others to think in a new 
way.
After your introduction, you will discuss with the students the results of their 
pre-session Embedding and Relevance Assignment.
The essence of the theoreti­
cal embedding
•	 Specifying the discipline(s) in 
which you are working
•	 Finding out which scientists 
are working in your field
•	 Finding out which scientists 
are in conversation with each 
other (a creative agreement or 
disagreement, or a debate 
regarding your topic)
•	 Finding out which theoretical 
framework is most suitable for 
your theoretical analysis of 
the subject
•	 The development of theoreti­
cal/interpretative/analytical 
propositions that will lead 
your research
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  113
Often, we learn a lot from evaluating others’ work. This will be the crucial 
point in part three of this afternoon’s session. You will split up your group of 
students into three sub-groups to discuss the value of the thesis summaries by 
x and y. Each sub-group will grade the two thesis summaries, making use of the 
rubric for evaluating disciplinary embedding and relevance (see the rubric ear­
lier in this session overview and Appendix J). You will bring together the sub-
groups’ conclusions. As you can see, in our programme we familiarize students 
with studying a thesis as soon as possible. I once organized a programme for 
first-year PhD candidates. I asked them which of them had ever seen a thesis. 
Half replied in the affirmative. Such unfamiliarity contributes to the mythology 
of the PhD thesis.
At the end of this day, we will ask our students to formulate their main inten­
tions in view of further action regarding disciplinary embedding and engaging 
the sources.
5.7 Post-session assignment
Literature search report
Your students will write a report on their literature search. You explain to them 
the format of such a report (see Appendix L, ‘Evaluation of the literature search 
report’ on p. 189).
Here is the generic format for a literature search report:
1	 Introduction of major research questions that have guided the search pro­
cess.
2	 Preparation of the literature search:
	◦keywords, search terms and synonyms;
	◦databases;
	◦deciding on inclusion and exclusion criteria (which sources to use, which 
not to use).
3	 The literature search in action – the sources we did consult:
	◦electronic databases;
	◦reference list searching (‘snowballing’);
	◦talking to experts.
4	 Judging the relevance of the publications.
5	 The way the results of the literature search are stored.
6	 The strengths and limitations of the way the search process has been per­
formed.
7	 A short conclusion (which major problems have been encountered, how 
they have been solved, lessons for future search actions).
Annex 1: Keywords, search terms.
Annex 2: Key references (the 20 most important documents found by the litera­
ture search).
114  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
6 Session 5: the literature review
This is a labour-intensive and long session. The students will have to do prepa­
ratory work. During the meeting they will also conduct practical assignments 
that promote mutual communication.
6.1 Preparatory activities
In view of this fifth session, you invite your students by email:
1	 To read Aveyard’s (2008) chapters; ‘How do I critically appraise the litera­
ture?’, ‘How do I synthesize my findings?’, ‘Why do a literature review?’ and 
‘How do I present my literature review?’, or a similar text that covers these 
topics.
2	 To read Booth et al. (2016: Chapter 6), ‘Taking notes’.
3	 To write a brief report on their own style of note-taking (to be discussed 
pairwise during the session).
4	 To read the ‘Evaluation of the critical appraisals’ form (see Appendix L, Sec­
tion 3, on p. 191).
5	 To take two copies to the session of articles they have read carefully and to 
write down critical observations in view of those articles (using Appendix L, 
‘Evaluation of the critical appraisals’) and the major themes the articles deal 
with, with special attention to which themes they share.
6	 To read a good literature review (sent to them by you with the email), pref­
erably written by an earlier participant in your Proposal Lab, or an earlier 
PhD candidate
6.2 Programme
1	 Your introduction of the literature review: ‘The bigger picture of this ses­
sion’.
2	 Note-taking:
a	 Your presentation: ‘Golden rules for note-taking’.
b	 Invite your students to organize individually the main findings from the 
two articles they have read in a chart like Figure 4.2. (This overview is 
based on Aveyard (2008: 112). I added the column ‘Most important key 
words resulting from your coding’).
c	 Evaluate their experiences in a plenary.
3	 Critical appraisal:
a	 Your presentation: ‘The essence of a critical appraisal’.
b	 Inventory of critical appraisal experiences in view of the two articles 
read in preparation of this session (plenary).
4	 Literature review:
a	 Your introduction: ‘The essence of a good literature review’.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  115
b	 Discussing a good example of a literature review (plenary).
c	 In four sub-groups: ‘On the way to my literature review: the essentials’. 
What are the main lessons they take from this session?
d	 Brief presentations by the sub-groups.
6.3 Your introduction of the literature review, the bigger picture of this 
session
The literature review is an important building block in every proposal. In your 
introduction you present the key features of a literature review. You also 
explain what it is NOT: not a list of authors and their work, in the order in which 
your student has read the texts. The main purpose of the review is that your 
students can position their own plans in relation to existing knowledge.
You also explain the study techniques that form the basis of a good review. 
Earlier you discussed the first step: the development of good search strategies. 
The second consists of the student making systematic notes of the text studied. 
Third, it concerns the critical appraisal of the text.
Below we will take a closer look at taking notes, the critical appraisal of 
texts and the structure of a review. Again, we do not assume that your students 
already have these basic skills. Obviously, this applies to Master’s students 
from your own faculty, but caution is also required with PhD candidates. Think, 
for example, of international candidates who have been trained elsewhere. 
However, if it turns out that you are treading well-trodden paths on these parts, 
you can be brief here. But check whether all your participants have mastered 
these techniques.
So, what is a good review and what is it not? It is essential for positioning 
your plans in the specific field of study. Bryman (2008) summarizes the main 
functions of a literature review. Writing a literature review will help you to find 
out the following:
1	 What is already known about this area – locating your research in a theoret­
ical context
Figure 4.2  Overview chart of literature read
Author/
date
Most 
important 
key words 
resulting 
from your 
coding
Aim of 
study/
paper
Type of 
study/
information
Main 
findings/
conclusions
Strengths 
and 
limitations
Publication 1
Publication 2, 
etc.
116  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
2	 The current debates, theories and relevant concepts
3	 The research methods that have been used
4	 Gaps, inconsistencies, and unanswered questions
5	 Your analytical framework
6	 Variables to include in your research that you might not otherwise thought 
about
You must explain what a literature review is not! It is not a summing up of 
authors and titles, building up a position by choosing a sample of texts that do 
not represent the breadth of perspectives, only presenting comfortable exam­
ples and avoiding authors who do not support your argument.
You also explain the structure of a review to your participants. See also Sec­
tion 6.8, information for the students regarding the extract of the literature 
review.
6.4 Explanation of the literature review quality criteria
You distribute Appendix L, Section 4, ‘Evaluation of a literature review’ and 
discuss the details.
6.5 Basic technique for a review: the notes
Before you formulate your recommendations, you invite your participants to 
talk about their own experiences in note-taking. Ask them to formulate their 
experiences in terms of SWOT analysis, Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities 
and Threats. Write down their major observations on the blackboard to track 
down lines and patterns.
Then, you explain the characteristics of taking notes.
1	 What is a note?
a	 A short written text, related to a source, dealing with its words and 
ideas, and its implications, consequences, shortcomings, and new possi­
bilities.
2	 The goals:
a	 Collecting and writing down information for a critical appraisal and the 
literature review.
b	 Facilitating the development of your own ideas.
3	 The necessary conditions:
a	 An open mind. Avoid just picking the information that suits you.
b	 Storing: build a data set of notes; this will save a lot of time and prevents 
you from just relying on your memory.
4	 The substance of a note is bibliographic data: standardized substantive 
notes contain information (see Turabian, 2007: 36–47) on the following:
a	 The major argument of the author, findings, and data.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  117
b	 Your own response: agreement, disagreement, value in view of your 
question.
c	 Reasons that support your hypothesis or suggest a new one.
d	 Evidence that supports your presumptions.
e	 Views that undermine or even contradict your presumptions, your hypoth­
esis.
f	 Historical background of your question.
g	 Historical or contemporary context, explaining the importance of your 
question.
h	 Important definitions.
i	 The keywords you have written down in the margin of the text.
Use keywords! Encode your texts! After having made several notes, you will be 
able to compare the notes (thus: the texts) by analysing your information per 
keyword. You will discover themes they share, either by agreement or disagree­
ment; you will also recognize texts that are outliers. This is an essential step in 
the synthesizing of your findings into a review and getting a grip on the discus­
sions regarding their topic. Your students can summarize their notes in an over­
view that can look like Figure 4.2.
Action
Invite your students to organize in class the main findings from the two arti­
cles they have read in a chart like Figure 4.2.
6.6 Basic technique for a review: the critical appraisal of the text
The next step towards the literature review consists of the critical assessment 
of the books, articles and papers read. The critical appraisal of the literature 
lays the foundation for arguing the strengths and weaknesses of a publication. 
Students can prepare for this by assessing two articles based on the checklist 
as mentioned in Appendix L, Section 3.
In her book, Greenhalgh (2010) includes several checklists that are helpful in 
analysing scientific texts. Although her book focuses on evidence-based medi­
cine, scattered throughout the text are numerous checkpoints that are also use­
ful for the assessment of scientific work in other disciplines. Based on this 
important work, I was able to create a checklist for reviewing publications in 
completely different disciplines. You will find the details in Appendix L, Section 
3. It contains the elaborated checkpoints:
•	 to determine what the publication is about;
•	 for the methods section of the paper;
118  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 for the robustness of the publication;
•	 for evaluating the results;
•	 for further research.
6.7 Synthesizing the findings: the literature review
In your introduction, you present the most important aspects of a literature 
review:
1	 Introduction of the research that makes up the context of the literature 
review:
	◦presentation of research questions that lead the literature review;
	◦showing the importance of the review and why the reader needs to read 
it and offer a road map for the reader of the literature review.
2	 The literature review should meet the following criteria:
	◦It is comprehensive and up to date.
	◦It shows critical and analytical thinking about the literature, so not just a 
summary of what is read; it shows the strenghts and limitations of the 
literature.
	◦It shows command of the literature.
	◦It is selective by discriminating between important and unimportant 
works.
	◦It is based on thematic structuring: per paragraph it brings together 
authors vis-à-vis themes they discuss. It is not a presentation of authors 
presented in the consecutive order of reading.
	◦It shows a clear alignment with the research questions.
3	 The conclusion of the review performs the following functions:
	◦It summarizes the main findings.
	◦It refers back to the introduction.
	◦It ties everything together.
	◦It shows the implications for the author’s research, for example, by 
adjusting the research questions.
One of our concluding suggestions emphasizes the composition of the review: 
the text is broken up into paragraphs with thematic sub-headings.
Action
During this meeting, you invite your students to evaluate a literature review 
written by a participant in an earlier version of your programme or a PhD 
candidate. You have sent this review to them some time before the session, 
together with Appendix L, Section 4.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  119
6.8 Post-session assignment: writing an extract of a literature review
Post-session, students will review five articles in their field of research from a 
peer review perspective and will write a trial version of a literature review. 
They will indicate:
•	 the strong and weak aspects of the work in question in terms of quality and 
methodology;
•	 the type of research that is used;
•	 whether there is a sharp problem formulation and a clear research question;
•	 whether the research question is answered.
They will depart from the knowledge acquired in this session on ‘writing a crit­
ical appraisal’ and make use of the quality criteria mentioned in Appendix L, 
Sections 3 and 4.
Submission date: about 6 weeks after this session.
Action
“Consult Aveyard (2007: Chapter 8), or a comparable guide in your discipline 
for a suggested structure of the literature review. You may limit yourself to 
the Aveyard items: Title Page, Contents Page, Introduction, Results, Discus­
sion, References. And do not forget her ‘Top tips for writing up your literature 
review’. Also refer to Appendix L, Section 4 for detailed information on the 
structure.”
7 The second individual feedback meeting: the 
well-reasoned topic choice
7.1 The assignment
At about two and a half months after the start of the programme, your students 
will complete their ‘topic exploration’. They write a paper entitled ‘A well-rea­
soned topic choice’. This paper has the following components:
1	 An Introduction containing information on:
a	 the importance for the author of the topic exploration;
b	 the way in which the author has come to the choice of topics which have 
been researched in detail;
c	 the sources that were used for the exploration of the topics.
2	 The approach of the ‘topic exploration’ and the evaluation of the approach: 
what went well, where did they meet problems, how did they solve them?
120  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
3	 What do five obvious ‘sources of inspiration’ tell the author about the possi­
ble topics?
a	 previous study and research activities of the author;
b	 experts, possible supervisors, peers, etc;
c	 the literature;
d	 studied case material and examples, (social) experiences of the author;
e	 the ‘research file’ of the author.
4	 A comparative strength/weakness analysis of the various topics that the 
author has examined and considered.
5	 Conclusion:
a	 Which topic does the author choose after careful consideration? (This 
choice reflects the ideas and thinking at this moment of writing. In the 
months that will follow, the ideas might change. That is a natural 
thing.)
b	 The function of the topic choice and subsequent proposal: will it be devel­
oped in view of a Master’s thesis, or PhD proposal, or application for an 
internal or external PhD position, or as a ‘stand-alone’ exercise in writing 
a proposal?
c	 The location of the execution of the research.
d	 Supervision: who can supervise and advise the author in the process of 
proposal writing?
e	 Issues that are still open, points which the author wishes to discuss with 
the convener of the Proposal Lab and supervisors.
6	 Bibliography: the paper (2500–3000 words) contains a bibliography of 20 
texts (articles, book chapters, books) the author considers to be closely 
related to the topic.
7.2 The feedback on the well-reasoned topic choice
You will discuss the well-reasoned topic choice with the participants in the Pro­
posal Lab during an individual meeting. You can expect the following topics to 
be addressed:
•	 the value of the topic exploration as such;
•	 the topic exploration requires a new way of studying;
•	 how both reason and intuition play an important role;
•	 the experience of uncertainties and how to deal with them;
•	 stages in the topic exploration;
•	 how the students also develop their own exploration techniques;
•	 the great importance of a thorough exploration of the literature;
•	 moments of break-through are there, it is not only a continuous process of 
making progress;
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  121
•	 a big step forward: contact with a possible supervisor and interviewing the 
experts;
•	 learning a lot from your fellow students;
•	 work to be done: sharper research questions;
•	 the wish to understand and to explain is there.
8 Session 6: from topic to questions
By this time, students have been orienting more narrowly towards a particular 
research topic. In this session, students will learn how to formulate research ques­
tions about a topic. The different types of research questions will be dealt with. 
After the introductory part of the session, the participants will offer feedback to 
each other on work sent around earlier. You finish the sessions with your main 
observations and suggestions in response to the Questions Practicums you read.
8.1 Preparation of the session by your students
Exercise in formulating types of questions
In preparation for this meeting, we invite the students to formulate their subject 
in different types of questions. It is a brain exercise for questioning the subject 
of preference in different ways. We formulate our invitation to join The Ques­
tion Practicum (Appendix K) as follows:
You have reached the moment it will be possible to transform your major 
interest in a topic into several question options. Try to write down your inter­
est (or aspects of it) in the format of each of the six question options. For 
example: if my research preference would be a descriptive one, my leading 
research question could read as follows [……….], and my sub-questions as 
follows [1.………2………3……]. Do not panic if an option doesn’t link up 
with your interest or the intrinsic qualities of the topic. If a type really does 
not fit your research objective, leave it out.
If you hesitate regarding several topics, just choose one to do this exercise 
in question gymnastics. Send this Assignment to your peer (see scheme – 
[to be composed by the convener]), and the convener(s) of the programme 
ultimately 3 days before our sixth meeting.
The goal of this exercise is to let you ‘play’ with different question type 
options. At the end, you will have to decide which question type and research 
perspective you feel most comfortable with and is most appropriate in view 
of your research goal. One tip: do not think in mutually exclusive question 
options. For example, whatever your ultimate research objective might be, 
descriptive questions will always figure somewhere in your overview of main 
question and sub-questions.
122  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Preparatory reading
Booth et al. (2016: Chapter 3), ‘From topic to questions’.
Meltzoff (2007: Chapter 2), ‘Research questions and hypotheses’.
8.2 Suggestions for your introduction
From topic to question
Our students have now mapped their research interests and carefully taken 
steps towards a specific topic. The next step is to translate the interest in a 
subject into a research question. This is often an overarching question that we 
can only answer by answering several sub-questions.
Types of questions
Which types of question can we distinguish?
•	 Existence questions: ‘Does x exist?’ Important when existence or nonexis­
tence of something is controversial (Meltzoff, 2007).
•	 Questions of description, classification and composition: ‘What is x like? Is 
it variable or invariant? … What are the components that make up x?’ (Melt­
zoff, 2007). ‘What are its qualities, what characteristics does it have? How is 
it? What is it made of? Who or what does it involve? What are the most 
important steps? What does it look like?’ (Oost, 2003).
•	 Descriptive-comparative questions: ‘What are the differences? What are the 
similarities? In what ways are they different? In what ways do they overlap, 
are they the same?’ (Oost, 2003).
•	 Relationship questions: ‘Is there a relationship between x and y?’ (Meltzoff, 
2007).
•	 Causality questions: ‘Does x cause, lead to, or prevent changes in y?’ (Melt­
zoff, 2007). ‘Why is it so? How did it happen? What is this a consequence of? 
What reasons are there? What is its background? How could this happen?’ 
(Oost, 2003).
•	 Questions of evaluation: ‘How well does it work? … What are its advantages 
and disadvantages?’ (Meltzoff, 2007).
Evaluating the quality of questions
According to Bryman (2008: 74), the research questions for a thesis or project:
•	 Should be clear.
•	 Should be researchable: They should be capable of development into a 
research design, so that data may be collected in relation to them. This 
means that extremely abstract terms are unlikely to be suitable.
•	 Should connect with established theory and research.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  123
•	 Should be linked with each other: It is especially useful to see the research 
questions as a pyramid with several layers. On top is the leading research 
question of the research; layer two consists of the sub-questions to answer 
the leading questions. Layer three consists of sub-sub-questions you need to 
answer on behalf of the specific sub-questions. Delete any question that is 
not essential for answering the main question of the study.
•	 Should have potential for contributing to knowledge.
•	 Should be neither too broad nor too narrow.
Booth et al. (2008) also offer useful advice on what to avoid:
•	 Questions whose answers are settled fact you could just look up.
•	 Questions that will not be answerable; where it is impossible to find hard 
data that might settle the question.
•	 Questions that are based on preference.
•	 Questions that make you read too many sources.
•	 Questions for which you cannot find the sources.
•	 Questions whose answer you cannot disprove.
I conclude with the rubric for evaluating the qualities of research questions 
(see also Appendix G, Section 3).
Rubric
Research problem (formulating the most important question the research 
must answer and most important sub-questions).
1	 Information missing on most important question and sub-questions derived 
from the research problem.
2	 Summary of research problem (most important question) and most import­
ant sub-questions.
3	 Satisfactory overview of most important question, sub-questions.
4	 Logically organized overview of most important question, sub-questions, 
and aspired contribution to the discipline.
5	 Logically organized and excellent communicated overview of most import­
ant question, sub-questions, and aspired contribution to the field.
8.3 In-session activities
Action
Before the session, the participants send the completed Question Practicum 
to one of their colleagues. To this end, you have formed duos of participants 
who will give each other feedback during the session. They each have 30 
minutes to do so. Then the whole group comes together again.
124  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
You make an inventory of the main results of this peer review. You then 
present your own key conclusions that you formulated while reading the par­
ticipants’ Question Practicums.
You start your general recommendations in response to the submitted 
work. Then you can explain your most important conclusions and recommen­
dations regarding the Question Practicum of each participant.
8.4 Post-session assignment
Action
In this assignment, students will formulate the central research question for 
their proposal, and the sub-questions, departing from a clear research problem 
and indicating the innovative character/relevance of their research and the way 
it is embedded in theory and the existing literature (the literature overview is 
taken as a benchmark). They will depart from the knowledge acquired in the 
sessions on ‘embedding and relevance’ and ‘from topic to question’. They will 
send you this paper and discuss it with their (potential) supervisor.
9 Session 7: theory, hypothesis and claim
We have arrived at the part of the proposal that frightens many PhD candidates: 
THE THEORY. One of the explanations for this is the wide variety of views on 
what a theory is. Let us present some useful perspectives. For example, Pawson 
and Tilley (2008) who see theories as ‘generative causal propositions’; Rosenthal 
(cited in Meltzoff, 2007: 28) makes the important distinction between various 
levels of theory:
Theory is like a large-scale map, with the different areas representing general 
principles and the connections between them being sets of logical rules. 
Hypotheses … are like small sectional maps, which focus only on specific 
areas … Second, hypotheses (being more focused) are more directly amena­
ble to empirical confrontation.
I will go deeper into the definition of a theory as a well-reasoned proposition or 
hypothesis. My suspicion is that most of the PhD research is focused on collect­
ing and analysing primary and secondary data for which working hypotheses 
are especially useful. The distinction between various levels of theory ties in 
with authors who, for example, made a distinction between grand theories and 
theories of the middle range.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  125
Bordens and Abbott (2008: 30) address the confusion that often exists in the 
scientific community regarding the term ‘theory’. They start by distinguishing 
between a theory and a hypothesis. They point out how in the scientific writing 
‘theory’, ‘hypothesis’, ‘law’ and ‘model’ are mixed up (ibid.: 31). They state:
Theories are more complex than hypotheses. In contrast to the simple 
one-variable account provided by [a] hypothesis, a theory would account for 
changes ... by specifying the action and interaction of a system of variables 
… no single observation could substantiate the theory in its entirety.
A second major distinction is that between theory as a starting point or as a 
goal. With the concept of ‘grounded theory’, Glaser and Strauss (2009) described 
the theory as a goal, as a result. In several disciplines, research is being done in 
previously unexplored areas. Broader theoretical perspectives or perspectives 
that could be used in related fields may be helpful, but the theory in that new 
field will be developed rather than evaluated.
9.1 Different perspectives on theory
Pawson and Tilley (2008: 120) make the lives of our PhD candidates easier by 
making it clear that there are many different perspectives regarding the defini­
tion and role of the theory. They distinguish, for example, theory in the sense 
of the following meanings:
•	 General orientations
•	 Ad hoc or ex post factum interpretations
•	 Empirical generalizations
•	 Derivations and codifications
•	 Axiomatic systems
•	 Hypotheses
•	 Explanations
•	 Paradigms
•	 Conceptual frameworks
•	 Causal propositions
You will advocate your own definition within your programme and explain 
which traditions are leading in your own work and that of your colleagues. It is 
important and reassuring for your students to know that there is not one sacred 
definition of the theory. The crucial point again is that you do not assume that 
your students already know what a theory is and what role it plays in their 
research. That is what this meeting is about.
9.2 Theory within a PhD research proposal: the propositions
In my own programme, I have always worked with the following working defi­
nition of theory:
126  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
A theory is a collection of well-motivated, disciplinary embedded and 
researchable propositions/theses that try to explain or try to understand, for 
example, the existence or non-existence of a problem, the similarities, and 
differences between A&B, the (in)effectiveness of a measure, the plausibility 
of a development.
It is not my intention to focus on a specific interpretation of the term ‘theory’. 
That is up to you and your research environment. It will help your students to 
address the difference between theory and hypothesis in this regard as well as 
the role of theory in research. Bordens and Abbott (2008) distinguish under­
standing, prediction, organizing and interpreting research results, generating 
research (‘providing ideas for new research’). They then discuss the character­
istics of a good theory and strategies for testing theories.
They conclude with the distinction between theory-driven versus data-driven 
research. This distinction comes close to the concept of ‘grounded theory’ that 
Glaser and Strauss launched in 1967 (revised in 2009): the discovery of theory 
from data systematically obtained from research. This approach can be especially 
useful where theories are not yet available for developing propositions. Where 
neither the ‘grand theories’ nor ’theories of the middle range’ can assist in formu­
lating specific claims regarding our subject that has not been researched before.
9.3 Ultimate focus in a proposal: formulation of the argument and claims
A must read for all your students is Booth et al. (2008: Part III, ‘Making an argu­
ment’). We already met this book when it discussed ‘From topic to question’. I 
summarize their main thoughts regarding the value of a claim in scientific 
research. In this chapter they discuss how to evaluate the clarity and signifi­
cance of the claim that answers your students’ research question.
You need a tentative answer to your research question to focus your research 
for the data that will test and support its answer …The kind of problem you 
pose determines the kind of claim you make and the kind of argument you 
need to support it … Academic researchers usually pose not practical prob­
lems but conceptual ones, the kind whose solution asks readers not to act 
but to understand … Do not try to inflate the importance of a conceptual 
claim by taking on a practical action, at least not early in your report. If you 
want to suggest a practical application of your conceptual claim, do it in your 
conclusion. There you can offer it as an action worth considering without 
having to develop a case for it.
(ibid., pp. 129, 122)
9.4 Script for the session
Preparatory reading
Before the session, you ask your students to search and read literature about 
the role of theory in the scientific research in their discipline. These texts can 
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  127
be ones that deal with the role of the theory in a general sense, or in a specific 
domain, or the role of the theory in a specific research project.
Your introduction
•	 Presentation of different definitions of theory
•	 Levels of theory: grand theories, theories of the middle range, specific topi­
cal theories
•	 Roles of theory, for example, understanding, predicting, organizing and 
interpreting research results
•	 Theory-driven research versus data-driven research
•	 Grounded theory
•	 Characteristics of a good theory
You also present the criteria that are involved when assessing the theoretical 
quality of a proposal (see also Appendix G, Section 2).
Relevant elements in the evaluation of theoretical quality
‘Theoretical context’ including research’s position in the specialist field(s) (par­
ticularly in relation to other research), research theme(s) contained in the prob­
lem, choices and presuppositions concerning the subject matter, rationale for 
these choices and presuppositions, and definitions of the main concepts. Con­
tribution to the disciplinary state of the art.
Rubric
1=	
Lack of theoretical context/Theory section lacking an arguable theoreti­
cal position in outline. Documentation is poorly constructed or absent. 
Aspired contribution to the discipline not mentioned.
2=	
Theory section clarifying in outline the theoretical context of the 
research, needing greater care in documenting sources, greater effort in 
organizing the text and/or a deeper level of analysis. Information on the 
aspired contribution to the discipline is not included.
3=	
Selective literature review adequately clarifying some of the relevant ele­
ments of the research context. Indications with respect to the possible 
contribution to the discipline.
4=	
Selective and critical literature review effectively clarifying most of the 
relevant elements of the research context, formulating a tentative posi­
tion with respect to the aspired contribution to the discipline.
5=	
Selective and critical literature review, effectively clarifying all the rele­
vant elements of the research context, formulating a clear and robust 
position with respect to the aspired contribution to the discipline.
128  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Action
There are many different views on what a theory is. Present some of those 
that are doing the rounds within your discipline. Ask your participants to indi­
cate the strengths and weaknesses in the different views on theory and their 
own preferred interpretation of the concept of theory.
Presentation by a colleague: the role of the theory in the research
It is instructive to have one of your colleagues or a PhD candidate illustrate the 
role of theory through his or her own research.
In-session activity
Action
•	 You split up the group in to couples interviewing each other on the aspect 
of theory in the proposal (15 minutes each).
•	 The interviewer will zoom in on the type of theory, the role of the theory 
and the theoretical relevance in the proposal of the interviewee.
•	 What does the theory mean for the proposal of the interviewee? Which 
role is the theory playing in terms of …
	◦
understanding;
	◦
prediction;
	◦
organizing and interpreting research results?
•	 The interviewer tries to receive an answer that is as specific as possible 
on what the proposed research intends to add to the state of the art of the 
knowledge in the field. The interviewee answers based on the results of 
the literature search up to now.
•	 Afterwards, you will make a little round to ask the interviewers whether 
they felt the answers were clear (enough) for them and what they learned 
from their colleague’s answers.
10 Session 8: the research design
In this session, you as a researcher and the methodologists and colleagues from 
your own discipline have the floor.
Choosing an appropriate research design is crucially important to the suc­
cess of your project. The decisions you make at this stage of the research 
process do much determine the quality of the conclusions that you can draw 
from your research results.
(Bordens and Abbott, 2008: 97)
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  129
This session identifies the questions to be answered when choosing a research 
design and introduces different types of research design.
In view of the proposal, the central question is whether the students have 
clearly outlined their research design and research methods. The partici­
pants may already have research experience and have had introductions to 
the different design possibilities, methods, and techniques in your disci­
pline. With the help of this session, they will apply any existing knowledge 
in their own research design. This session offers you the opportunity to 
determine whether their knowledge in the aforementioned areas is indeed 
available and where additional training outside your programme is 
necessary.
As in Chapter 3, I make suggestions for how this session can be structured. 
Again, you will make it your own. Input from scientists from the field of the 
participants in your Proposal Lab is essential.
Action
It is impossible to present books on research design in the various disciplines 
here. For this session, ask your participants to do an internet search for 
books written about research design in their discipline. They will be amazed 
at what is available. There may be a book among the results that you would 
like to read with the whole group.
10.1 What we may expect from the methods and data section in a 
proposal
My colleague Heinze Oost laid the foundation for the assessment of this part of 
the proposal.
Methods
Relevant elements are:
1	 Function of the research (describing, comparing, defining, evaluating, 
explaining, designing)
2	 Sample (segment of the population [universe of units or objects] that is 
selected for research, for example, locations, periods, objects, actors, etc.)
3	 The properties or attributes of object(s) of research (to be compared, 
described, evaluated, etc.)
4	 Data-collection methods
130  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Rubric
1=	 Lack of methods section/Methods section showing hardly any informa­
tion on research function, sample, object properties and methods.
2=	 Methods section lacking relevant information on the research function, 
sample, object properties and methods. And/or level of analysis needs 
improvement. 
3=	 Methods section adequately clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis is satisfactory but is lacking 
details in motivation.
4=	 Methods section effectively clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis and motivation are good.
5=	 Methods section effectively clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis and motivation are excellent.
10.2 Pre-session assignment
Action
As a preparation for the session, you ask your students to think about how 
they are going to answer the central research question (and sub-questions) 
of their research project. In other words, what data they will need to answer 
these questions, and what their research methods will be. They write this 
down on one A4 sheet, bring it to the session and send it to you a couple of 
days before the session.
Action
Critical appraisal of methods sections in the proposal of two predecessors. 
Some time before the session, send your students two proposals written by 
their predecessors. You ask the students to pay particular attention to the 
data and methods section in these proposals and to evaluate them against 
the criteria mentioned above. They bring their judgements to the session.
Ask the participants to give their opinion in the form of advice: how could 
the colleagues have improved their research design?
10.3 Introduction by the teacher: some suggestions
Here are some building blocks for your own introduction. You design your own 
introduction in view of your own knowledge and scientific discipline. The main 
function of your introduction is to check whether your students are familiar 
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  131
with the core elements of the data and methods section in a proposal. Do they 
know what the expectations of their readers are? In addition, you and your 
students must determine whether the knowledge and skills are available to use 
specific methods of material collection.
Opening
We are approaching the real start of our project. There are some hurdles we 
must take before we can report our plans in the format of a Research Proposal.
•	 Yes, we have the questions, but which data do we need to answer our questions?
•	 We are working under limits of time and feasibility, so we must limit our­
selves. We cannot study the whole world, all the cases, the total history, we 
can’t interview all the possible informants … we must work on the selection 
of units (countries, cases, persons, documents, periods, experiments), in 
other words: the sample.
•	 Okay, we might have specified the data and the sample, but how then to 
collect our information, which methods of data collection and data analysis 
will we be using?
Why transparency?
Why is it important to offer our readers this information? We must comply with 
the important criteria in establishing and assessing the quality of our research. 
That starts with offering transparency on sampling and methods before we 
start the research (so that others can judge the quality of our approach and 
feasibility – ex ante evaluation) and after we have completed the project (so 
that others, for example, our supervisors, can evaluate the quality of our find­
ings and report – ex post evaluation).
Where it all comes together is in creating transparency regarding how we 
will do it and how we have done it. Without transparency we cannot judge how 
a researcher has done something and we cannot judge why there is a good jus­
tification of doing it that way, if plausible alternatives have been overlooked, 
etc.
Basic elements of the data and methods section of a proposal
In each research project, the researcher selects methods to obtain the research 
findings. The researcher will be guided by prior knowledge or theories about 
the phenomena under study. The researcher’s ideas might be intuitive or formu­
lated as propositions or working hypotheses. In that way, the research process 
starts with a conceptual model of the object of research. That determines the 
questions that are to be answered and which procedures will be used to find 
answers to these questions. The research design shows the researcher’s plan 
for collecting and organizing data and which specific rules and procedures will 
be followed.
132  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
Many alternatives are available regarding the nature of the research cases, 
the number of cases, the primary basis for selecting cases (sampling), basic 
sources of data, the methods of gathering the data, etc. Every decision should 
be well motivated in the proposal the candidates are preparing. After the pri­
mary research question has been defined, we will formulate a number of 
sub-questions whose answers allow us to answer the main question at the end 
of the research project. Sometimes we are inclined to formulate more questions 
than we need to answer the main question. This is a ‘red flag’ moment.
After we have formulated the sub-questions – and sometimes there is even a 
layer of sub-sub-questions – we will determine what kind of material we need 
to answer the questions and how we are going to collect this material. All these 
points must be clearly stated in our research proposal.
Corbin and Strauss (2008: 77, 247) suggest using comparison, process and 
context:
•	 Comparison
	◦helps to obtain a grasp on the meaning of events that might otherwise 
seem obscure;
	◦helps sensitize researchers to properties and dimensions that are in the 
data but remain obscure due to a lack of sensitivity on the part of the 
researcher;
	◦counters the tendency to focus on a particular case;
	◦forces researchers to examine their own basic assumptions, perspectives.
•	 Process – analysing data for process encourages the incorporation of 
variation into the findings; process can lead to the identification of patterns 
and trends.
•	 Context – identifies the sets of conditions in which problems and/or situations 
and/or arrangements or problems arise.
10.4 In-session assignments
Action
Evaluating the methods section in the proposals by predecessors. ‘You have 
evaluated the method sections of two predecessors. Discuss your findings in 
three sub-groups. Report on the major strengths and weaknesses.’
Action
After the students’ report, you will give your own comments on the work of 
the predecessors. You will be able to compare your observations with those 
of your students. Do this by formulating statements for discussion.
The Proposal Lab sessions and feedback meetings  133
You can refer to the research design and methods experts in your own 
discipline and criteria such as:
1	 How defensible is the research design?
2	 How well defended is the sample design/target selection of cases/­
documents?
3	 Sample composition/case inclusion – how well is the eventual coverage 
described?
4	 Contexts of data sources – how well are they retained and portrayed?
5	 How well has diversity of perspective been explored?
6	 How well are detail, depth and complexity (richness) of data been consid­
ered in the research design?
10.5 In-session assignment: explaining research questions and data 
collection to a peer
Action
The students bring to the session their plans regarding questions, data and 
methods (see the pre-session assignment).
The students are placed in pairs and each student gets 15 minutes to tell 
their colleague:
•	 what the central research question is;
•	 what the sub-research questions are;
•	 which (methodological) steps they will take to answer these questions.
After these pairwise discussions, your group comes together again. Each 
student is asked to briefly explain the research of the interlocutor:
•	 What is the central research question?
•	 What kind of question is this?
•	 How will the interlocutor answer these questions?
Then the students are asked to give their opinion on the methodological 
steps that the interlocutor wishes to take.
Finally, the interlocutor is asked to explain what has been learned: what 
he/she has learned:
•	 from the exercise to explain the research in a simple way;
•	 from the explanation and comments given by the colleague.
10.6 Closure of this session
After Session 8, all the components of the proposal are well explained. The 
participants will now start working on their Proposal Halfway. It is good to 
134  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
come back to the planning they have made for the development of their pro­
posal at the end of this session. Are they still on track or are adjustments 
needed? Discuss with them the possibilities of giving each other peer support 
and in any case show that you are willing to have email contact or to meet in 
case they get stuck somewhere. And better before they reach that moment!
11 The third individual feedback meeting: the 
Proposal Halfway
11.1 The assignment
At this point, your participants have received sufficient information about the 
format of a proposal and the quality criteria that will be in force. You explained 
to them that writing a proposal is a growth process. That is why the programme 
first asks for a Proposal Halfway. They will discuss this with each other, 
experts, potential supervisors and you. On this basis, they will work for a few 
more weeks before submitting the Final Proposal.
11.2 The feedback
In this third individual feedback meeting, you will give feedback on the details 
of the Proposal Halfway. Preferably, you do this by writing down your com­
ments. The students can compare the comments of the different feedback pro­
viders. At least where these overlap, there is serious work to be done.
It is an interesting option to have each participant attend a colleague’s Pro­
posal Halfway discussion with his/her supervisor. They take notes and discuss 
them afterwards with their colleague.
11.3 On the way to the final proposal
After this feedback, the students will continue to work on their Final Proposal 
for several weeks. This is the final part of their programme.
11.4 Interim contact and intervision meeting
Offer e-coaching or meeting each other if they run into questions or problems 
during the weeks they are working on their Final Proposal. A good option is to 
organize a meeting where your participants can present to their colleagues a 
problem they are struggling with while writing their proposal. The format is 
that of an intervision meeting with the difference that all participants have 
their turn. Form groups of a maximum of four participants who work accord­
ing to the principles as explained in Chapter 3, Section 4.9, intervision.
Reading tip
This chapter informs supervisors, Proposal Lab conveners and stu­
dents about the results of the Proposal Lab and the qualities needed 
for a successful PhD project.
What we will know 
after completion of the 
Proposal Lab
5
1 Different types of proposal writers
Let us start by sketching different types of potential PhD candidates. All of 
them passed a strict selection procedure; we had high expectations of them all, 
and we rated them among the top of their cohort. After 7–8 months, we can 
distinguish in a group of 18 talented students the following types:
•	 The Certain Winners: the students who ‘have it’, the students who bend 
assignments to their will and surprised us repeatedly – the candidates for a 
PhD project.
•	 The Conditional Candidates:
	◦Passive Talents – certainly, the student is talented, but is passive, waits 
for our instructions repeatedly.
	◦The Talented Topic Hopper – just when this talent has chosen a nice topic, 
the candidate enters our office announcing the project will be completely 
different.
	◦Talented Rule Breaker – the talented student who does not stick to the 
rules of the game, who ignores deadlines, who fights a delayed battle of 
independence, creating much irritation with surrounding supervisors 
and lecturers.
•	 The Fragile Talent – the talented one who is feeling very uncertain, con­
stantly needing our reassurance.
136  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
•	 Finally, The (Provisional?) Non-Candidates
	◦Feeble Minimalist – the candidate who is cutting corners.
	◦Talented Disappointers – actually, the most remarkable category, the stu­
dents who have been selected without any doubt, but start to disappoint 
us during the programme. Two reasons why were dominant: combining 
study work with private activities that take up too much time or combin­
ing the main study with other study interests. In short, not giving enough 
time to the development of a PhD proposal. Or the other category, the 
student who is not feeling good, is having rough times privately and is 
dropping out now and then.
We came to this typology during an extended period of co-operation. We did not 
see the weaknesses during the admission procedure. These experiences illustrate 
the big problems we are confronted with in deciding on the admission of PhD 
candidates in our department. It is impossible to get a nuanced picture of quali­
ties and risks during a procedure based on an examination of some written mate­
rial, mostly insipid references, and a meeting of, let us say, 45 minutes. It confirms 
the value of a longer introductory period in the form of the Proposal Lab.
2 Predicting underperforming in proposal writing: is 
it possible?
Let us start with two anecdotes. Julia took part in our programme and was 
repeatedly overwhelmed with great doubts, scepticism in the immediate family 
circle and grief. Tears were shed every time we met. Everything in me told me 
that she was too fragile to complete a long-term PhD programme. While we 
knew that our meetings would always lead to a few tears, we could even laugh 
about that. ‘Wait, Julia, I’ll grab a box of tissues’ … and then we would have fun 
and get to work constructively. Seven years later she successfully defended her 
PhD thesis.
There was also Louise. An extremely talented participant in our programme. 
We said to each other: ‘a born PhD candidate!’. She was working hard, and then 
suddenly there were hiccups. Work was turned in hastily and below her level, 
and she did not seem quite there with her attention. We had to discuss a paper 
once; I suggested a day, but then Louise could not be there, telling that she had 
to be in [another university city]. Interested, I said, ‘What are you going to do 
there?’ A little shyly, she said that in addition to our programme, she had also 
started a Master’s programme in a completely different discipline. I raised my 
eyebrows. She completed our programme with a good thesis plan, while I had 
the feeling that the fragmented attention would lead to nothing. A few years 
later, I saw that Louise had become one of the influential Dutch PhD represen­
tatives, had two children by now and was on her way to completing her thesis.
In the following I will outline several characteristics of PhD candidates of 
whom we can doubt whether a PhD trajectory is really something for them. Can 
we predict underperforming? What should we pay attention to?
What we will know after completion of the Proposal Lab  137
The two anecdotes teach us that our observations during our programme 
may contain important clues as to the strengths and weaknesses of a candi­
date, but that it is possible that the candidates whom we doubted the most will 
produce a PhD thesis. So, do not let what follows lead to final judgements 
about suitability or not, but serve as important points of attention for the 
conversations we will have in our programme about their prospects of suc­
cess. Having the following points in mind, we will make our students feel that 
we understand where they may have their shoes pinched. This is how we get 
further.
2.1 Substantive indicators for underperformance
1	
The research topic ‘shrinks’ on closer study of the literature and the candi­
date cannot respond smoothly by changing course. There remains a small 
topic, of which the assessor wonders whether this requires 4 years of doc­
toral research.
2	
The writer explicitly reports confusion on their side, in combination with 
procrastination.
3	
Insufficient deep familiarity with the topic has arisen. The writer does not 
indicate that he or she has delved deep into the material. Insufficient explo­
ration has taken place. The reader feels that the writer relies mainly on 
secondary sources and has not seen any primary material.
4	
There is an unclear structuring of the argument in written texts. A charac­
teristic of this is that the writer does not use headings and sub-headings. 
The reader must struggle through the text.
5	
In written texts, a lack of structure takes the form of questions scattered 
throughout the text. The writer does not clearly put them together in sum­
mary or separate section, so that the reader can quickly assess the interre­
lationship between the questions.
6	
The writer does not establish a link with the scientific exchange of views on 
their subject. The writer is not in conversation with colleagues, for exam­
ple, via a strong literature review.
7	
Some of our candidates show a familiarity with the literature but are not 
yet able to achieve a synthesis. The literature is presented as loose frag­
ments without clarifying where the authors correspond or are in discus­
sion. Another characteristic is the presentation of the literature per author 
and not thematically.
8	
The writer does not provide a clear picture of the material needed to answer 
the research questions and the way in which he or she will collect them.
9	
The writer assumes or claims that there are scientific problems but does not 
substantiate this statement or formulates no intention to investigate 
whether these problems exist and of which disciplinary nature they are.
10	 Unsubstantiated claims are presented regarding the originality of the sub­
ject (‘not yet researched’, ‘no other authors have written about it’) or the 
possible causes of the assumed problem.
138  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
2.2 Behavioural indicators of underperformance
Manathunga (2005) mentioned as the most important warning signs as regards 
underperforming PhD candidates: frequent change of subject and frequent 
change of planning. In addition, she mentions isolating themselves from fellow 
doctoral candidates, department, or research institute, postponing submission 
of work and, in the first place, avoiding communication with the teachers or 
supervisors.
In my own practice I also found the following:
•	 Unforeseen change of subject. However, it should be noted that subject 
changes can also be enforced by external circumstances. A subject may 
unexpectedly turn out to be in the hands of another researcher. On the other 
hand, a wonderful new subject can also be thrown into one’s lap, an oppor­
tunity not to be missed.
•	 Exceeding deadlines, especially if this is in combination with …
•	 Non-communication with supervisors, lab conveners, etc.
•	 The authors present the lecturers with a fait accompli by failing to meet the 
deadlines and not informing them in time. Work to be handed in just comes 
in too late.
•	 Procrastination, ‘there is always something the matter’.
2.3 Core themes in a lack of progress
1	 Lack of progress: Few differences between different versions of texts, for 
example, drafts of the proposal.
2	 Narrow-mindedness: Inadequate literature study and insufficient explora­
tion of the field of study refer to a closed working attitude. The writer is not 
open to the work of others. Poor communication with you and potential 
supervisors can also be a characteristic of a closed working posture. It 
should be noted that an uninterested supervisor can also have a share in 
this!
3	 Bias: The writer assumes a problem that needs a scientific answer (but does 
not investigate the actual existence of the problem) or assumes that the 
problem is of a specific disciplinary nature. The writers do not test their 
assumptions.
4	 Wish for allies instead of critical appraisal: The student identifies with a spe­
cific position in the scientific discussion or a particular author and shows a 
lack of critical ability.
5	 Instrumentalism and solutionism are dominant: Narrow-mindedness also 
arises from a strong fixation on the desire to create practical solutions 
(design lust). It can be a shocking experience for teachers to see how their 
students not only stagnate in their thinking about a research proposal, but 
even can deteriorate. In fundamental research, research Master’s students 
and PhD candidates are challenged to ask fundamental questions, driven by 
What we will know after completion of the Proposal Lab  139
a theoretical ambition for explanation. At least, that was the message we 
conveyed to our students. One of our students has not been moving away 
from an instrumental perspective in her research but succeeded in doing the 
opposite: solutionism and design lust did become more prominent at the 
expense of more fundamental questions that she presented earlier.
2.4 The candidates’ evaluations
One participant rated the programme as follows:
It was very good that in this programme, you had the opportunity to make 
the assignments in line with your own research proposal. Therefore, this 
course really helped me in writing and doing research for my own research 
proposal … I liked the ‘free thinking’ that was possible during the programme. 
A great deal of the programme involved one’s own research and not plainly 
reading materials, as happens in other courses. It really distinguished itself 
as a course … I’m glad to have an insight into other research methods as 
well. It makes you more aware of the strengths and weaknesses of [specific 
kinds of] research. I also liked the time for discussions in class and in gen­
eral the assignments were very helpful to proceed in your research/topic 
choice.
Aspects mentioned by the participants in an appreciative sense: the practical 
assignments, the feedback from the convener, topics discussed and their order, 
useful skills training, the pressure on the participants to advance in their 
research and to work on the proposal, the coaching/mentoring approach, get­
ting to know about the research projects of others and the freedom concerning 
the student’s topics.
In critical observations, participants emphasized the importance of the clar­
ity of assignments, putting more effort in explaining what is expected from 
participants, the balance between conveners when it comes to team teaching, 
and staying involved as a convener and keeping contact in the period when the 
participants work more individually on their proposal. It is also important to 
plan the programme in such a way that the timing of the completion of the pro­
posal corresponds to the submission dates that apply in an admission proce­
dure for a PhD position. The proposal deadlines ought to be synchronized with 
the deadline for a PhD application.
One of the evaluators emphasized the tension that can arise between the 
Proposal Lab convener, and, on the other hand, the supervisor, being much 
more positive or negative.
2.5 Final chord
Does the quality of the proposal lead to a final assessment of the qualities of 
students and early PhD candidates? Years ago, I made an overview of the 
proposal assessments of the PhD candidates of my graduate school, at the end 
140  The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal
of their first year of the PhD programme. There was a lot of criticism. The eval­
uators – full professors from the graduate school and colleagues of the super­
visors – complained about a lack of grip on the literature, methodological 
weaknesses, unclear formulation of the problem, a lack of limitation in the 
research ambitions, a missing leading argument and, above all, theoretical 
infirmities. What is striking is the combination of criticism and appreciation. I 
give you an illustration, the comments on the work of candidate ‘E’ (Table 5.1).
A couple of years later, ‘E’ defended her doctoral thesis and became a highly 
regarded independent researcher.
Twenty years after these often-critical assessments of proposals and 
research plans, we know in many cases how the careers of these 23 PhD candi­
dates developed. Seven were appointed to full professors and six became senior 
lecturers. There are three independent, highly respected, scientific researchers 
and one became a publisher.
We know for sure that one has not yet defended his thesis. In five cases, it is 
unknown what have been the next steps in their career after their time at the 
Table 5.1  Report on a PhD student’s work
Evaluator
Appreciation
Criticism
Evaluator 1
Paper makes a very unfinished 
impression; why are the experiences of 
[migrants] interesting; central problem is 
unclear. Which theoretical framework? 
Can get stranded in the mess of data. 
Provisional chapter layout reflects book’s 
fragile structure.
Evaluator 2
Little to criticize about 
empirical research, 
careful approach, a lot 
of material
Meagre theorizing; danger of a highly 
descriptive study
Evaluator 3
Convincing piece of 
work. Follow her 
progress with respect.
Evaluator 4
Undoubtedly has 
interesting material 
and gives it fascinating 
elaboration
She is bad at expressing herself simply 
and clearly. What exactly she has in her 
hands and which questions she wants to 
impose on material remain unclear. 
Apparently, she works by touch. 
Extension of planned timetable is a 
major concern. Clarification and 
specification of research plans are 
necessary (= discussion of work plan).
What we will know after completion of the Proposal Lab  141
graduate school. What we can learn from this is that assessing a proposal is 
part of a formative assessment. We get feedback on the progress and clues on 
what needs to be done. In exceptional cases, the proposal provides material for 
a final assessment of the qualities of the students and early PhD candidates.
The biggest benefit of a Proposal Lab is that after completing the proposal, 
students and supervisors know exactly what they are getting into if both par­
ties decide on a multi-year PhD trajectory and intensive collaboration.
A.	The writing of a proposal and being a PhD candidate: Literature tips for 
teachers, supervisors, students and PhD candidates
B.	Example of a Proposal Lab prospectus
C.	Example of a Proposal Lab schedule (September–June)
D.	The Snapshot: Students’ information about research interests
E.	The Rough Topic Exploration: In-class assignment, Session 1
F.	 Planning the well-reasoned topic choice and proposal design: In-class 
assignment, Session 2
G.	Proposal information and tips: Session 3
Writing the proposal abstract
Rubrics for evaluating the proposal qualities
Criteria for evaluating research questions
H.	A well-reasoned topic choice: Guidelines for students and PhD candidates
I.	 Instructions in form format for writing the Proposal Halfway
J.	 The disciplinary embedding assignment, Session 4 and Session 5
K.	The Question Practicum: Session 6
L.	 Evaluating individual research training assignments
Evaluation of interview reports
Evaluation of the literature search report
Evaluation of the critical appraisals
Evaluation of a literature review
M.	SWOT Analysis by candidates already halfway to a proposal (the Clinic)
N.	Expectations in view of a 4 year PhD project
O.	Planning Matrix PhD trajectory: Research and other activities
P.	 At the end of the proposal journey: SWOT analysis in view of a (future) 
PhD project
Q.	Training and supervision plan
Appendices
Tools for students, PhD 
candidates and supervisors
Note: The books I present here sometimes have their origins in a specific disci­
plinary field and have been of great value to the Proposal Lab. The reason I 
mention them lies also in the fact that they have a value far beyond the limits 
of that specific discipline.
Aveyard, H. (2007) Doing a Literature Review in Health and Social Care: A Practical 
Guide. Maidenhead: Open University Press.
This book covers all the important aspects of doing a literature review: why do 
a literature review, what literature will be relevant, developing a research ques­
tion, how to search for literature and how to critically appraise it, how to pres­
ent my review.
Greenhalgh, T. (2010): How to Read a Paper: The Basics of Evidence-Based Medicine. 
Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
Written for researchers in evidence-based medicine, it triggers the critical 
appraisal of literature in many other disciplines.
 Phillips, E.M. and Johnson, C.G. (2022) How to Get a PhD: A Handbook for Students and 
Their Supervisors (7th edn). Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Especially:
•	 Chapter 4, ‘How not to get a PhD’
•	 Chapter 7, ‘The PhD process’
•	 Chapter 11, ‘How to supervise and examine’ (among others: what students 
expect of their supervisors)
Booth, W.C., Colomb, G.G., Williams. J.M., Bizup, J. and FitzGerald, W.T. (2016) The Craft 
of Research (4th edn). Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
•	 Chapter 3, ‘From topics to questions’
•	 Chapter 4, ‘From questions to a problem’
Appendix A
The writing of a proposal and being 
a PhD candidate
Literature tips for teachers, supervisors, 
students and PhD candidates
146  Appendix A
•	 Chapter 5, ‘From problems to sources’
•	 Chapter 6, ‘Engaging sources’
•	 Chapter 7, ‘Making good arguments’
•	 Chapter 8, ‘Making claims’
Lovitts, B.E. (2007) Making the Implicit Explicit: Creating Performance Expectations 
for the Thesis. Sterling, VA: Stylus Publishing.
This is a book that every PhD candidate should read. It makes clear on which 
criteria a dissertation will be judged. It specifies the criteria for 10 different 
disciplines. These are easily applicable to other related disciplines.
Verschuren, P. and Doorewaard, H. (2005) Designing a Research Project. Utrecht: 
Lemma.
Brewer, R. (2007) Your PhD Thesis: How to Plan, Draft, Revise and Edit Your Thesis. 
Abergele: Studymates Limited.
•	 Chapter 2, ‘Different types of research’
•	 Chapter 3, ‘The research question’
•	 Chapter 4, ‘Feasibility’
•	 Chapter 5, ‘The research proposal’
Gosling, P. and Noordam, B. (2006) Mastering Your PhD: Survival and Success in the 
Doctoral Years and Beyond. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
•	 Chapter 2, ‘Getting started’
•	 Chapter 3, ‘Setting goals and objectives’
•	 Chapter 8, ‘The art of good communication’
•	 Chapter 10, ‘Searching the scientific literature’
Becker, H.S. (1986) Writing for Social Scientists: How To Start And Finish Your Thesis, 
Book, Or Article. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.
Becker, H.S. (1998) Tricks of the Trade: How to Think About Your Research While You’re 
Doing It. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Meltzoff, J. (2007) Critical Thinking About Research: Psychology and Related Fields 
(9th edn). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
•	 Chapter 1, ‘Critical reading’
•	 Chapter 2, ‘Research questions and hypotheses’
Hunt, J. and Nhlengethwa, S. (2009) The Art of the Idea and How It Can Change Your 
Life. New York: PowerHouse Books. 
•	 Observation No. 03, ‘Ideas have moods’
•	 Observation No. 06. ‘I google therefore I am (not)’
•	 Observation No. 07, ‘Trust your instincts or they will go away’
•	 Observation No. 08, ‘Incremental change is fine if you are a glacier’
Appendix A  147
Delamont, S., Atkinson, P. and Parry, O. (2004) Supervising the Doctorate: A Guide to 
Success. London: The Society for Research into Higher Education.
•	 Chapter 2, ‘Caught and held by a cobweb: getting the student started’
•	 Chapter 3, ‘The balance between tradition and progress: designing and plan­
ning a project’
•	 Chapter 4, ‘Old manuscripts: the literature review’
•	 Chapter 5, ‘Heavy and thankless task: overseeing the data collection’
•	 Chapter 11, ‘A rather unpromising consignment: selecting successful stu­
dents and building a research culture’
Okorocha, E. (2007) Supervising International Research Students. London: Society for 
Research into Higher Education.
Snieder, R. and Larner, K. (2009) The Art of Being a Scientist: A Guide for Graduate 
Students and Their Mentors. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
•	 Chapter 2, ‘What is science?’
•	 Chapter 3, ‘Choices, choices, choices’
•	 Chapter 5, ‘Questions drive research’
•	 Chapter 6, ‘Giving direction to our 
work’
•	 Chapter 8, ‘Ethics of research’
Realize that there are count­
less resources on the internet 
that provide comparable infor­
mation. You can also use the 
literature description above to 
develop search terms that will 
help you to locate possible 
internet sources. But in any 
given case, make sure that 
you carefully search the inter­
net or alternative literature for 
the topics covered in the 
above literature descriptions.
Title of the programme: The writing of a PhD proposal
Lecturers: ________________________________________
Prerequisites: Being registered as Research MA/Master’s student/PhD candi­
date/MPhil candidate. Willingness to read, discuss, write and rewrite with 
enthusiasm, perseverance and an open mind for everything that seems new.
1 Overview of Proposal Lab objectives
The Proposal Lab will deal with:
•	 the development of a solid research design;
•	 individual research skills;
•	 the formulation of a research proposal;
•	 an introduction to research strategies and methods of data collection (in that 
way functioning as an entry point to the detailed study of specific methods);
•	 learning how to manage yourself and your supervisor;
•	 learning to critically reflect on your own writings and assess the scientific 
quality of scholarly publications.
The Proposal Lab is designed to provide students with faculty guidance and 
peer support in undertaking the writing of an elaborated research proposal as 
a stand-alone exercise or as the basic material for an application for a PhD 
position or a research position of shorter duration in or outside academia. Par­
allel to the Proposal Lab, students will have to foster an intensive co-operation 
with their ‘faculty mentors’. The Proposal Lab is not intended as a substitute for 
specialized training on particular topics, which the participants may expect 
from teachers in domain courses, mentors and/or supervisors.
Besides the proposal development, the Proposal Lab contains a section that 
will provide students with an introduction ‘light’ in individual research skills 
and [specific disciplinary] research methods.
Appendix B
Example of a Proposal Lab 
prospectus
Appendix B  149
2 Lab objectives in detail
We distinguish three major building blocks: knowledge, skills and application. 
In the overview that follows, you will find the specificities per building block.
A.	Objective 1. Knowledge of
•	 newest developments in the discipline
•	 the function of theory in research
•	 the function of the research question and the different types of research 
questions
•	 the components of a research proposal and the elements of a research 
design
•	 the criteria that are used in the evaluation of research designs and 
research proposals.
B.	Objective 2. Skills
•	 basic ingredients of intellectual craftmanship
•	 interviewing experts
•	 searching the most important literature
•	 critical appraisal of literature
•	 writing a literature review
•	 finding a research niche for starting a new project
•	 extrapolation: reflection on one’s own research interests and research 
experiences for making new research driven choices
•	 assembling research questions, formulation of data needed to answer the 
question and methods to collect the necessary data
•	 reporting and communication with respect one’s own research
•	 giving and handling feedback (by Lab conveners, mentors/supervisors, 
and peers)
•	 complying with deadlines.
C.	Objective 3. Application and synthesis
•	 application of knowledge and skills in the development of one’s own 
research plans
•	 synthesis by putting together knowledge and skills in the development of 
a research proposal.
3 Lab requirements
Grades for the Lab will be based on participant’s performances on the assign­
ments during and concluding the sessions as well as the final proposal.
Preparatory reading
Students will prepare every session by studying the related literature. In that 
way, emphasis is put on discussing important aspects and exemplars, next to 
practising.
150  Appendix B
Assignments
During the Lab we will work with special assignments that contribute to the 
final product/outcome of the programme, namely: a full-size research proposal 
according to the format of a national research foundation. This consists of an 
abstract, a research problem (leading question and sub-questions), a methods 
paragraph, and a section on scientific and societal relevance. Sometimes we 
will hand out assignments that will serve as ‘homework’.
The assignments provide opportunities for you to further develop and artic­
ulate your thinking about research design and research proposals. We expect 
the assignments to be prepared with due care and precision. A lack of co-­
operation will be reflected in the grading.
Turning assignments in
‘Pre-assignments’ will be done and turned in during the sessions.
The format of all the documents will be that of a Word document. Assign­
ments that serve as homework will be sent to the students via electronic mail at 
least 7 days before the following Lab session. During this session, the results of 
the assignment will be discussed, among others by showing ‘good practices’ on 
the part of the students.
There will be three Individual Feedback Meetings.
1	 The first will be devoted to discussing the Snapshot and the Rough Topic 
Exploration Matrix.
2	 In the second meeting, we will discuss your well-reasoned topic choice.
3	 The third one will be devoted to discussing the Proposal Halfway.
The deadline for the major assignments is (as an example):
•	 After 3 months: A well-reasoned topic choice.
•	 After 7–8 months: Proposal Halfway.
•	 After 9½ months: The Proposal Final Version.
Exemplars
One aim of the Proposal Lab is to promote exposure to the diversity of research 
and research proposals. This goal will be pursued by studying thesis summa­
ries and research proposals by researchers in your domain, as well as by intro­
ductions by experienced researchers. ‘Peer review’ will also play an important 
role: you will read and evaluate the work of your fellow students.
Attendance
If you are not going to be able to attend, teachers expect to be informed by 
email about the reasons for not attending.
Appendix B  151
Books to be bought
[To be specified]
Overview of assignments to be graded
Table 6.1  Overview of Proposal Lab assignments to be graded
Assignment
Deadline
a
Literature Review
b
Research Question and Embedding Report
c
Literature Search Report
d
Interview Report
e
Proposal Halfway
f
Final Proposal
Explanation of the intermediate assignments
1	 A well-reasoned topic choice. After about 2½ months, you will complete 
your ‘topic exploration’. You will write a paper entitled ‘A well-reasoned 
topic choice’. This paper has the following required components:
1	 An Introduction containing information on the following points
	◦The importance for the author of the topic exploration
	◦The way in which the author has come to the choice of topics which 
have been researched in detail
	◦The global approach of the topic exploration
	◦The sources that were used for further exploration of the topics
	◦A preview of the composition or structure of the text that will follow 
(roadmap for the reader).
2	 The approach of the ‘topic exploration’ and your evaluation of the 
approach: what went well?, where did you meet problems?, how did you 
solve them?
3	 What do five obvious ‘sources of inspiration’ tell you about the possible 
topics?
a	 Your own previous study and research activities
b	 Experts, possible supervisors, peers, etc.
c	 The literature
d	 Studied case material and examples, your own social experiences
e	 Your personal ‘research file’ (see Wright Mills (1970), ‘On intellectual 
craftmanship’).
4	 A comparative strength/weakness analysis of the various topics that you 
have examined and considered.
152  Appendix B
Which topic will you choose after careful consideration? This choice reflects 
your ideas and thinking after 2½ months. In the months that follow, your ideas 
will change. That is a natural thing. Provide the following information:
1	 The function of the topic and subsequent proposal: to be developed in view of 
a Master’s thesis, or PhD proposal, or application for internal or external PhD 
position, or to be written as a ‘stand-alone’ exercise in writing a proposal.
2	 Location of possible execution of the research to be prepared by writing the 
proposal.
3	 Supervision/mentorship: who can supervise and advise you in the process of 
proposal writing?
4	 Issues that are still open, points which one wishes to want to discuss with the 
Proposal Lab convenor(s).
The paper contains a bibliography of 20 texts (articles, book chapters, books) 
you consider to be closely related to your topic. These texts should be written 
by other researchers.
Size of the paper: Introduction: a maximum of half a page
Body: 2500 (min.) to 3000 words (max.)
Bibliography of 20 texts.
4 Extract of a literature review, based on at least 
five texts
Consult Appendix L, Section 4 for a suggested structure of this literature review. 
This Appendix can be added to the Proposal Lab prospectus.
A good literature review shows a critical appraisal of the literature. This 
means students will assess the articles and books from a peer review perspec­
tive. They will indicate the strong and weak aspects of the work in question in 
terms of quality and methodology, the type of research that is used, whether 
there is a sharp problem formulation and a clear research question, whether the 
research question is answered. For this aspect of the review, you will depart 
from the knowledge acquired in the session on ‘writing a critical appraisal’. 
Take the ‘Evaluation of the critical appraisals’ form in Appendix L, Section 3 as 
a checklist while writing your critical appraisal.
5 Research question and embedding report
In this assignment, students will write down the research question for their 
planned research proposal, departing from a clear research problem and indi­
cating the innovative character/relevance of their research and the way it is 
embedded in theory and the existing literature (the literature search and review 
are taken as your benchmark). In writing this note, you will depart from the 
Appendix B  153
knowledge acquired in the sessions on ‘Embedding and relevance’ and ‘From 
topic to question’. This note is laying the foundation for your Proposal Halfway.
6 Interview report
You will write a report on two of your interviews. Components of the report:
•	 The two interview guides (maximum 2 pages in total).
•	 Two brief reports on the substance (the major results) of the interviews 
(maximum 2 x 3 pages). See also Appendix L, Section 1, Evaluation of inter­
view reports.
7 Literature search report
Generic format for literature search report
1.	 Introduction:
	◦Introduction of major research questions that have guided the search 
process
2.	 Preparation of the literature search:
	◦Keywords, search terms and synonyms
	◦Databases
	◦Deciding on inclusion and exclusion criteria
	◦Inclusion criteria
	◦Exclusion criteria
3.	 The literature search in action:
	◦Electronic databases
	◦Reference list searching (‘snowballing’)
	◦Talking to experts
4.	 Judging relevance of publications.
5.	 The way the results of the literature search are stored.
6.	 Strengths and limitations of the way the search process has been performed.
7.	 A short conclusion (which major problems have been found, how they have 
been solved, lessons for future search actions).
	◦Annex 1: keywords, search terms
	◦Annex 2: key references (20 most important documents that have been 
found by the literature search).
8 Evaluation criteria for Proposal Halfway and Final 
Proposal
The rubrics for the assessment of the Proposal Halfway and the final result, the 
Proposal, can be found in Appendix G, Section 2. This information can be added 
as an appendix to the Proposal Lab prospectus.
Appendix C
Example of Proposal Lab 
schedule (September–June)
Table 6.2  On the way to a (PhD) research proposal: a possible scheme
Topic
Moment
Didactics
Assignment
Texts
Pre-orientation on 
possible topics by 
participants by 
filling in Snapshot
Before start 
of Lab
Sent to 
teachers before 
start of 
programme by 
email 
attachment, 
August
a. Introduction 
round convener 
and participants
Session 1, 
third week 
of 
September
Opening by 
convener(s) 
b. Preparing 
Research 
Session 1 
Introduction by 
convener(s)
The Topic 
Exploration
Session 1 
Instruction by 
convener(s) 
In-class 
assignments: 
The Rough 
Topic 
Exploration 
Form
 Appendix E
The Bigger Picture: 
•	 Research 
design
•	 Research 
Proposal
Session 1 
Instruction 
•	 Presentation of 
proposal format 
and two strong 
proposals.
•	 Introduction of the 
literature
In class:
Planning topic 
exploration
Skimming some 
proposals
Finger exercise 
in formulating 
topic + 
conceptual 
problem
Appendix F
(Continued)
Appendix C  155
Topic
Moment
Didactics
Assignment
Texts
Individual 
feedback on 
Snapshot + Rough 
Topic Exploration
First week 
of October
Lab convener(s) 
Snapshot and 
Rough Topic 
Exploration, 
handed in 
ultimately end 
of September
Introduction on 
different types of 
research in the 
discipline [X]: the 
tricks of the trade
Session 2, 
Third week 
of October, 
Part I
Introduction on 
different types of 
research in discipline 
[X]. Researchers will 
first give some 
theoretical insights. 
Second, they will 
give examples of 
research that they 
have conducted 
themselves and will 
discuss with the 
students to which 
‘type’ of research in 
discipline [X] this 
research would 
belong.
Interviewing 
experts and 
informants with 
practical 
experiences 
Part II
Interview instruction: 
Lab convener
Comment on 
interview questions 
as prepared by 
participants during 
this session.
•	 Pre-session 
assignment: 
preparing 
interview 
questions for 
interviewing 
peer + draft 
of email for 
interview with 
expert and 
supervisors
•	 Interview 
practicum
•	 Post-session: 
interviewing 
two experts 
and writing of 
interview 
report
1	 Bryman 
(2008)
2	 ‘Semi-
structured 
interview’
3	 Appendix L, 
Section 1
Preparing 
contacting 
possible mentors/
supervisors
Part III
Instruction by Lab 
convener 
Table 6.2  (Continued)
(Continued)
156  Appendix C
Topic
Moment
Didactics
Assignment
Texts
Planning the 
proposal 
development
Part IV
Instruction by Lab 
convener
In-session: 
participants 
write down their 
own planning
Appendix F
Introduction of 
proposal format
Session 3, 
first week 
of 
November
•	 Explaining format
•	 Presentation of 
evaluation criteria
•	 Discussion of 
good practices
In sub-groups, 
the students 
discuss the 
qualities of two 
proposals they 
have been sent 
before the 
session
After the 
session, 
students write a 
reflection paper 
on the 
implications of 
the literature 
study, 
convener’s 
introductions 
and  proposals 
they have read
1	 Brewer 
(2007), 
Chapter 5
2	 Good 
example 
by 
predeces­
sor
3	 Appendi­
ces G and 
I
Training in 
literature search
Session 4, 
third week 
of 
November, 
Part I
Introduction and 
practicum by 
librarians
Pre-session 
assignment: 
Students send 
note on 
research topic  
and research 
questions to 
librarians
Instruction + 
In-class 
practicum
Post-session: 
literature search 
and writing 
literature search 
report
1	 Aveyard 
(2007), 
Chapters 1–4
2	 Appendix 
L, Section 2
Table 6.2  (Continued)
(Continued)
Appendix C  157
Topic
Moment
Didactics
Assignment
Texts
Embedding and  
relevance
Session 4, 
Part II
Introduction by Lab 
convener
1	 Embedding 
assignment, 
in class
2	 Discussing 
two thesis 
summaries.
1	 Booth 
(2016),  
‘Engaging 
sources’
2	 Appendix J
Writing a literature 
review 
Session 5, 
second 
week of 
December, 
Part I
Sub-group discussion 
and evaluation of a 
literature review in 
the discipline [X]. 
Instruction by Lab 
convener
Pre-session 
reading of good 
practices in 
Literature 
Review.
Post-session 
assignment:
Students will 
write a literature 
review in view of 
their research 
topic. They will 
depart from the 
knowledge 
acquired in this 
session on 
‘writing a 
literature 
review’. 
1	 Aveyard 
(2007), 
Chapter 8
2	 Evaluation 
scheme for 
literature 
review 
Appendix L, 
Section 4
Note-taking and 
critically 
appraising reports 
and documents 
Session 5, 
Part II
Introduction by Lab 
convener
Introduction of 
literature on criteria 
which can be used to 
assess (the quality 
of) research in the 
discipline [X]
1	 Discussion 
of critical 
appraisal 
criteria in 
class
2	 Post-­session 
assignment: 
students will 
assess a 
substantial 
article in the 
discipline [X] 
from a peer 
review 
perspective. 
1	 Aveyard 
(2007), 
‘Critical 
reading’
2	 Appendix 
L, Section 
3
Second individual 
feedback meeting
Third week 
of 
December
Discussion of ‘A 
well-reasoned topic 
choice’ with Lab 
convener
Paper ‘A 
well-reasoned 
topic choice’.
Table 6.2  (Continued)
(Continued)
158  Appendix C
Topic
Moment
Didactics
Assignment
Texts
Questioning your 
topic
Session 6, 
second 
week of 
January
From topic to 
question. 
Introduction by Lab 
convener 
In-session 
assignment: 
The Question 
Practicum.
Post-session: 
students 
formulate the 
central research 
question for 
their proposal, 
and the 
sub-questions
1	Booth 
(2016), 
Chapter 3, 
‘From topic to 
questions’
2	Appendix K
Handing in:
•	 Literature review
•	 Critical 
appraisal 
Research question 
and embedding 
report
Second 
week of 
January
See Appendix 
for details of 
quality 
criteria
Theory, 
hypothesis, claim
Fourth week 
of January
Introduction by Lab 
convener: different 
perspectives on 
theory, the role of 
propositions and 
claim, and criteria 
that are involved 
when assessing the 
theoretical quality of 
a proposal
One of the 
convener’s 
colleagues or a PhD 
candidate illustrates 
the role of the theory 
within his or her own 
research
Lab participants 
split up in 
couples,  
interviewing 
each other on 
the aspect of 
theory in the 
proposal
Literature on 
theory in the 
specific 
discipline [x]
The research 
design: data and 
methods
Session 7, 
second 
week of 
February
Introduction by Lab 
convener and 
presentations by 
researchers, 
providing 
‘showcases’ of 
research
Literature on 
the research 
design in the 
specific 
discipline [x]
Table 6.2  (Continued)
(Continued)
Appendix C  159
Topic
Moment
Didactics
Assignment
Texts
Handing in:
•	 Report on 
literature search
•	 Interview report
March 1 
Appendix L
Presenting your 
research ideas in 
progress 
Session 8, 
first week 
of March
Students will prepare 
a 15-minute 
presentation of their 
research plans in 
progress. Each will 
be followed by a 
15-minutes 
evaluation by peers 
and lecturers
Think of 
literature on 
presenting 
work in 
progress
Handing in 
Proposal Halfway
1 May
Third individual 
feedback meeting: 
Proposal Halfway
To be 
decided
Handing in 
Proposal Final 
Version
15 June
Grading of Final 
Proposal
22 June
Table 6.2  (Continued)
Appendix D
The Snapshot
Students’ information about research 
interests
Research interest and topic(s) under consideration 
(max. 1000 words in total)
Name:______________________
Please answer the following questions clearly and in ‘simple words’. Write for 
an academic, but non-specialist reader. See how much you can say. If you do 
not know the answer, leave the answer space empty. Feel free to give informa­
tion about research experiences outside the field of research outside the disci­
pline of your study. You may incorporate information you wrote down in the 
motivation letter.
History
1 The origin of your interest in general in doing research
Why are you interested in doing research [in the discipline of your study]? 
Where and when did your interest develop itself?
2 Prior research experiences
Have you been involved in research before? What was the major question? 
What was the major result, the major answer? [Answer this question also in 
case of research experiences you consider as limited or modest or outside your 
current field of interest.]
Appendix D  161
3 Your research capital
In your prior research experience, which of your personal and intellectual qual­
ities were to your entire satisfaction? Where did you encounter the greatest 
problems?
4 What was the central question you have tried to answer in your most 
important prior research project?
On the way to a new research project
1 What is your research about?
Say something about the topic(s) you have in mind.
2 How much is already known about your topic(s)?
Can you explain in a few words what is known and what is still unknown with 
respect to your topic(s)?
3 Why is this research interesting for you?
4 Interesting for others?
Your research will be interesting for other people too. Please mention them and 
explain why they will be interested in your research and its results.
162  Appendix D
5 Discussion with others?
Have you already discussed you research interests and topics with others? 
What were their questions and suggestions?
6 Is your research connected to your disciplinary field?
In which way is your research topic connected with your prior disciplinary 
training?
You will participate in a […….] programme in the disciplinary field of […]: in 
which way is the topic of your research embedded in the field of […] or one of 
its sub-fields?
7 Further information/comments/suggestions
Appendix E
The Rough Topic Exploration
In-class assignment, Session 1
The Rough Topic Exploration Matrix, in-class 
assignment
‘In the next 30 minutes, you will make your first move on the chessboard of the 
topic exploration. The core idea is that you will organize your topic exploration 
in a very systematic, one could say, scientific way. You could see it as a little 
research project on its own. To facilitate this first step, we have developed an 
overview of the various sources of inspiration you could dispose of in delineat­
ing your scientific interests.
The matrix mentions several information sources. We ask you to write down 
which possibilities you are considering for contacting, reading, analysing. Do 
not misunderstand this invitation: you are not asked to take a hasty decision 
about your topic. We only want you to think in a systematic way about the 
strategies you will use in developing concrete and more specific ideas about a 
research topic.
Together with the Snapshot we will discuss this form during the individual 
feedback sessions on …’
The Rough Topic Exploration Matrix
You may hand this in at the end of the first Lab session, or you may take it home 
to think it over again and turn it into a digital version you will send to the lec­
turers one week before the individual meeting.
Name: ____________________
164  Appendix E
Table 6.3  The Rough Topic Exploration Matrix
Analyse your social interests, activities 
outside your formal study programme 
(voluntary work, jobs, political involvement). 
Write down in the right column if one or 
some of them could be functional with 
respect to taking a decision about your 
research topic.
Think about your papers, reports, journal 
articles and theses you have written: are 
there ‘red threads of preferences’ as 
regards specific substantive issues, 
location or period of research, methods of 
research, type of research? 
Meeting peers is especially important in 
developing your topic interests. Which 
peers, outside and inside the programme, 
would be good sparring partners? 
Analysing research environments, reading 
research programmes and meeting 
possible supervisors (‘hunters’ as well as 
‘sleeping beauties’) are all especially 
useful steps in the topic exploration. What 
concrete ideas come to mind in thinking 
about these sources of inspiration and 
information?
Doing some literature search ‘light’ will give 
you a first insight into the state of the art 
of the academic thinking about topics. We 
will train you in doing a proper literature 
review, but can you formulate already now 
some literature sources you could consult 
in this first exploration?
Finally, we suggest considering the 
possibility of looking at a concrete case or 
example in your fields of interest. It will 
make potential topics much more palpable. 
Is this an option for you? Explain your yes 
or no.
1	 Students indicate in which week(s) they will work on the respective activities.
Table 6.4  Proposal Lab activity timetable
Activity
Week 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Evaluation of your approach of the 
topic exploration
Analysis of your previous study 
and research activities
Consultation of experts 
possible supervisors
peers
Search and analysing of literature
Studying case material, examples
Starting research file
A comparative strength/weakness 
analysis of the various topics
Studying literature on designing a 
research project
Writing a paragraph about what you 
learned from the literature on 
designing a research project 
Taking a decision on the topic
Appendix F
Planning the well-reasoned 
topic choice and proposal 
design
In-class assignment, Session 2
(Continued)
166  Appendix F
Activity
Week 1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Taking a decision on the context of 
topic (Master’s thesis, PhD project)
Taking a decision on the location of 
execution of research
Taking a decision on supervisor
Start writing draft of well-reasoned 
topic choice (WRTC) 
Finishing draft WRTC
Discussion of draft WRTC
Finishing WRTC
Handing in WRTC
x
Table 6.4  (Continued)
2	 Students indicate the timing of the proposal development.
Table 6.5  Timing of proposal development
Activity
Month 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
1.	 Starting 
and 
keeping 
my 
research 
file
1.	 Making 
proposal 
planning 
with 
supervisor 
2.	 Deciding 
with 
supervisor 
about 
milestones 
and 
deadlines 
for 
assessing 
work in 
progress
(Continued)
Appendix F  167
Activity
Month 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
3.	 Milestones 
for 
progress 
evaluation
4.	 Taking care 
of funding 
issues 
5.	 Exploration 
of topic
6.	 Turning 
topic into 
first 
version of 
questions 
7.	 Review of 
literature
8.	 Explorative 
research
9.	 Reformula­
tion of 
questions 
10.	Choice of 
(sample of) 
objects to 
be studied 
11.	Deciding 
which data 
need to be 
collected
12.	Deciding 
which 
methods of 
data 
collection 
are 
appropriate
13.	Design of 
research 
project 
(conceptual 
and 
technical)
(Continued)
Table 6.5  (Continued)
168  Appendix F
Activity
Month 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
14.	Final 
version 
research 
proposal 
(in view of 
go/no-go 
decision)
15.	Approval of 
proposal 
by 
supervision 
team 
16.	Buffer time
+ + + +
Table 6.5  (Continued)
Table of contents:
1	 Writing the proposal abstract
2	 Rubrics for evaluating the proposal qualities 
3	 Criteria for evaluating research questions
1 Writing the proposal abstract
The usefulness of proposals is greatly enhanced if their contents are summa­
rized by a short, descriptive title and a well-written abstract. These are the 
starting points that enable evaluators to decide on subsidizing and acceptance 
of PhD projects.
What constitutes a good abstract?
An abstract of a proposal is a collection of statements that comprises the essen­
tial points of the document. It should be informative and present as much as 
possible of the quantitative or qualitative information contained in the article. 
In the case of our programme, it should be between 200 and 250 words long 
(usually 100–150 words), or as short as possible without omitting essential 
information or endangering its accuracy. It should state (Brewer, 2007: 132):
1	 what is presented, theorized, studied
2	 the purpose and context of the research
3	 theories used to explain what will be reported
4	 the hypotheses, which will be tested, and/or the leading research question 
and the sub-questions which the research project will attempt to answer
5	 what the sample(s) or units/subjects of study will be
6	 how data will be collected and analysed (the research methods used)
7	 the relevance of the research project to the field of study.
Appendix G
Proposal information and tips
Session 3
170  Appendix G
How to prepare your abstract
•	 Read the draft of your proposal, and list, in order, the topics that are 
­discussed.
•	 Review each topic in turn to see if direct informative statements of the spec­
ificities of the topic can be written.
•	 Compose a first sentence that will clearly establish the context and scope of 
the proposal.
•	 Edit the completed abstract for style. Use definite statements instead of gen­
eralities. Use the shortest clear expression for each thought.
•	 Do mention important authors or theories that are crucial to the understand­
ing of your work.
Check that the abstract meets these four criteria:
•	 The abstract tells the prospective reader what the proposal is about, in 
­language appropriate to the field.
•	 The abstract states the principal purposes of the proposal.
•	 The abstract is no longer than necessary, in this case 200–250 words.
•	 The abstract does not contain concepts or purposes beyond those discussed 
or arrived at in the proposal itself.
Examples
For some good and many bad (!) examples of thesis abstracts, consult relevant 
internet sites.
Conclusion
An abstract, by its content, form and style, should preview the rest of the 
­proposal. The abstract is often the only part of a proposal that will ever be 
examined by colleagues or researchers. That abstract will be used to decide if 
its research proposal will be ignored or if it merits further attention.
2. Rubrics for evaluating the proposal qualities
This part of the Proposal Information (Oost et al., 2008) will give your students 
an insight in the evaluation criteria that play a significant role in the final 
assessment of their proposal.
Basic rating scale
1= blank/unacceptable, 2 = needs improvement, 3 = satisfactory, 4 = good, 
5 = excellent
Appendix G  171
A Abstract
Relevant elements
Research problem (including intended domain), actual subjects or entities 
(domain to be achieved), function (e.g., describing, explaining) and structure 
of the research (main sub-questions), data collection and data analysis meth­
ods (design), and expected results (possible answer).
Rubric
1=	 Lack of abstract/essentially incomplete overview of the proposal.
2=	 Overview of the proposal lacking information on either research problem 
or function and structure or data-collection.
3=	 Overview of the proposal adequately summarizing some of the relevant 
research elements. However, information on research problem, function 
and structure, and data collection is included.
4=	 Overview of the proposal adequately summarizing most of the relevant 
research elements, including information on research problem, function 
and structure, and data collection.
5=	 Overview of the proposal adequately summarizing all the relevant 
research elements concerned.
B Research problem
Relevant elements
Research problem (formulating the most important question the research must 
answer) and most important sub-questions.
Rubric
1=	 Lacking information on most important question and sub-questions 
derived from the research problem. 
2=	 Summary of research problem (most important question) and most 
important sub-questions. 
3=	 Satisfactory overview of most important question, sub-questions. 
4=	 Logically organized overview of most important question, sub-­questions, 
and aspired contribution to the discipline.
5=	 Logically organized and excellent communicated overview of most 
important question, sub-questions, and aspired contribution to the field.
172  Appendix G
C Motivation
Relevant elements
Argument for the newsworthiness, theoretical and/or practical or social rele­
vance, and scope of the research problem (originality, relevance).
Rubric
1=	 Lack of justification/Justification section lacking an arguable position in 
outline.
2=	 Justification arguing for the newsworthiness and relevance of the 
research problem, needing greater care in documenting sources, greater 
effort into organizing the text and/or a deeper level of analysis.
3=	 Selective literature review adequately substantiating that the research 
problem has not yet been answered sufficiently (newsworthiness) and 
contributes to science (theoretical relevance) and/or society (practical/
social relevance). Information on the scope of the research problem may 
be limited.
4=	 Selective and critical literature review effectively substantiating that the 
research problem has not yet been answered sufficiently (newsworthi­
ness) and contributes to science (theoretical relevance) and/or society 
(practical/social relevance). Information on the scope of the research 
problem may be limited.
5=	 Selective and critical literature review effectively substantiating that the 
research problem has not yet been answered sufficiently (newsworthiness), 
contributes to science (theoretical relevance) and/or society (practical/
social relevance), and cannot yield more information, given the subject, con­
ditions and the research context (scope). Clear information on the scope of 
the research, clearly showing ‘the bigger story’ behind the specific topic.
D Theory
Relevant elements
‘Theoretical context’ including the research’s position in the specialist field/s 
(particularly in relation to other research), research theme/s contained in the 
problem, choices and presuppositions concerning the subject matter, rationale 
for these choices and presuppositions, and definitions of the main concepts. 
Contribution to the disciplinary state of the art.
Rubric
1=	 Lack of theoretical context/Theory section lacking an arguable theoreti­
cal position in outline. Documentation is poorly constructed or absent. 
Aspired contribution to the discipline not mentioned.
Appendix G  173
Rubric
1=	 Lack of methods section/methods section showing hardly any informa­
tion on research function, sample, object properties and methods.
2=	 Methods section lacking relevant information on the research function, 
sample, object properties and methods, and/or level of analysis needs 
improvement.
3=	 Methods section adequately clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis is satisfactory but is lacking 
details in motivation.
4=	 Methods section effectively clarifying research function, sample, object 
properties and methods. Level of analysis and motivation is good.
5=	 Methods section effectively clarifying research function, sample, 
object properties and methods. Level of analysis and motivation is 
excellent.
2=	 Theory section clarifying in outline the theoretical context of the research, 
needing greater care in documenting sources, greater effort into organiz­
ing the text and/or a deeper level of analysis. Information on the aspired 
contribution to the discipline is not included.
3=	 Selective literature review adequately clarifying some of the relevant ele­
ments of the research context. Indications with respect to the possible 
contribution to the discipline.
4=	 Selective and critical literature review effectively clarifying most of the 
relevant elements of the research context, formulating a tentative posi­
tion with respect to the aspired contribution to the discipline.
5=	 Selective and critical literature review, effectively clarifying all the rele­
vant elements of the research context, formulating a clear and robust 
position with respect to the aspired contribution to the discipline.
E Methods and Research Design
Relevant elements
•	 Function of the research (describing, comparing, defining, evaluating, 
explaining, designing)
•	 Sample (segment of the population [universe of units or objects] that is 
selected for research, for example locations, periods, objects, actors, 
etc.)
•	 The properties or attributes of object(s) of research (to be compared, 
described, evaluated, etc.).
•	 Data collection methods.
174  Appendix G
Rubric	
1=	 Lack of relevant information making a consistency check inappropriate/
Proposal showing hardly any consistency between the research problem, 
the motivation, the theory and/or the methods section. Documentation 
is poorly constructed or absent. Text lacks clear and logical development 
of ideas with no transition between ideas and paragraphs.
2=	 Proposal seldom showing consistency between the research problem, 
the motivation, the theory and the methods section. Development of 
F References
Relevant elements
Bibliography, Information on search strategy with respect to bibliography.
Rubric
1=	 Lack of bibliography. Information on search strategy absent/Bibliogra­
phy lacking proper format and limited details with many sources missing 
or incomplete. Search strategy displaying minimal effort in selecting 
quality resources. 
2=	 Bibliography showing some errors in generally accepted disciplinary for­
mat with most sources shown and a limited variety of sources. Search 
strategy displaying that the researcher could have put greater effort in 
selecting quality resources. 
3=	 Bibliography showing no errors in generally accepted disciplinary format 
with all sources shown and an acceptable variety of sources. Search 
strategy displaying a moderately systematic way of gathering informa­
tion. 
4=	 Bibliography showing no errors in generally accepted disciplinary format 
with all sources shown and a rather wide variety of sources. Search strat­
egy displaying a mainly systematic way of gathering information. 
5=	 Bibliography showing no errors in generally accepted disciplinary format 
with all sources shown and a wide variety of sources. Search strategy 
displaying an extremely systematic way of gathering information.
G Consistency
Relevant elements
(Consistency check by the reviewer.) Relationships between research problem, 
motivation, theory and methods; relationships between paragraphs within 
these sections.
Appendix G  175
Rubric
1=	 Lack of reflection/Reflection demonstrating lack of interest in proposal’s 
strengths and weaknesses, and possible improvements.
2=	 Reflection somewhat superficially considering proposal’s strengths and 
weaknesses, and possible improvements.
3=	 Reflection adequately considering proposal’s strengths and weaknesses, 
and possible improvements.
4=	 Reflection accurately considering proposal’s strengths and weaknesses, 
and possible improvements.
5=	 Reflection excellently evaluating proposal’s strengths and weaknesses, 
and possible improvements.
ideas is slightly clear, logical and thorough with weak transition between 
the paragraphs in sections.
3=	 Proposal usually showing consistency between the research problem, 
the motivation, the theory and the methods section. Development of 
ideas is moderately clear, logical, and thorough with adequate transition 
between the three paragraphs.
4=	 Proposal always showing consistency between the research problem, 
the motivation, the theory and the methods section. Connections 
between the relevant research elements are clear but not always explicit. 
Development of ideas is mainly clear, logical and thorough with good 
transition between paragraphs.
5=	 Proposal always showing consistency between the research problem, 
the motivation, the theory and the methods section. Connections 
between the relevant research elements are clear and always explicit. 
Development of ideas is extremely clear, logical, mature and thorough 
with excellent transition between the three paragraphs.
H Reflection
Relevant elements
One page annex to the Proposal (Halfway) (not being part of the proposal 
itself!), clarifying the author’s appreciation of the strengths and weaknesses of 
the proposal and the planned action of improvement between, for example, 1 
May and 15 June.
3 Criteria for evaluating research questions
Research questions for a thesis or project (Bryman, 2008: 33):
1	 Should be clear, understandable to you and others.
2	 Should be researchable, being capable of development into a research design.
176  Appendix G
3	 Should connect with established theory and research.
4	 Should be linked with each other.
5	 Should have potential for contributing to knowledge.
6	 Should be neither too broad nor too narrow.
Avoid, for example:
1	 Questions whose answers are settled fact you could just look up.
2	 Questions that will not be answerable because you cannot imagine finding 
hard data that might settle the question.
3	 Questions …
a	 based on preference or taste.
b	 that force the researcher to read too many sources.
c	 whose answers ask for crucial sources that are unattainable.
d	 whose answer you cannot disprove (Booth et al., 2016).
Checklist for the elaboration into sub-questions
1	 Will the answers to the sub-questions yield all the information necessary for 
answering the main research question? No vital questions forgotten?
2	 Is every question necessary in answering the main research question? Is 
every answer contributing to the conclusion? No redundancies?
3	 Have the sub- and sub-sub-questions been elaborated in a consistent, coher­
ent way? Will they yield a consistent overall image of the situation under 
study?
After about 2½ months, you will complete your ‘topic exploration’. You will 
write a paper entitled ‘A well-reasoned topic choice’. This paper has the follow­
ing components:
1	 An Introduction containing information on the following points:
a	 The importance for the author of the topic exploration.
b	 The way in which the author has come to the choice of topics which have 
been researched in detail.
c	 The sources that were used for the exploration of the topics.
2	 The approach of the ‘topic exploration’ and your evaluation of the approach: 
what went well?, where did you meet problems?, how did you solve them?
3	 What do five obvious ‘sources of inspiration’ tell you about the possible 
topics?
a	 Your own previous study and research activities.
b	 Experts, possible supervisors, peers, etc.
c	 The literature.
d	 Studied case material and examples, your own social experiences.
e	 Your personal ‘research file’.
4	 A comparative strength/weakness analysis of the various topics that you 
have examined and considered.
5	 A paragraph on what you took from the literature your teacher has sug­
gested to you for reading as regards developing your research objective and 
research perspective.
6	 Conclusion
a	 Which topic do you choose after careful consideration? (This choice 
reflects your ideas and thinking per end of December. In the months that 
will follow, your ideas might change. That is a natural thing.)
Write a paragraph that starts with formulating your topic in conformity 
with the following format. You would like to explain or elaborate your 
Appendix H
A well-reasoned topic choice
Guidelines for students and PhD candidates
178  Appendix H
text under 1, 2 and 3. But start with forcing yourself to write according to 
this format.
Format (indicating what you do not know or understand about your topic) 
(suggestion Booth et al.. 2016):
1.	I am studying/working on ………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………….
2.	because I want to find out who/what/when/where/whether/why/how
……………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………
3.	to help my reader understand better
……………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………
b	 The function of the proposal. Will it be developed in view of Master’s 
­thesis, or PhD proposal, or an application for an internal or external PhD 
position, or will it be written as a ‘stand-alone’ exercise in writing a 
­proposal?
c	 Location of the research.
d	 Supervision/mentorship: who can supervise and advise you in the process 
of the proposal writing?
e	 Issues that are still open, points which you wish to discuss with the 
Proposal Lab convener(s).
7	 The paper (between 2500 and 3000 words) contains a bibliography of 20 texts 
(articles, book chapters, books) you consider to be closely related to your 
topic.
8	 Deadline: as agreed with the convener of the Proposal Lab and/or supervisor.
Maximum 2000 words
Name:____________________________
Title of the project: _______________________________
1 Give a brief description of your project
Appendix I
Instructions in form format for 
writing the Proposal Halfway
Explanation
Usually, this part of a proposal is called The Abstract. In this case, it should be 
between 200 and 250 words long (usually 100–150 words), or as short as possi­
ble without omitting essential information or endangering its accuracy. It 
should state: 
1	 what is presented, theorized, studied
2	 the purpose and context of the research
3	 theories used to explain what will be reported
4	 the hypotheses, which will be tested, or/and the leading research question 
and the sub questions which the research project will attempt to answer
5	 what the sample(s) or units/subjects of study will be 
6	 how data will be collected and analysed (the research methods used)
7	 the relevance of the research project to the field of study.
180  Appendix I
2 The research question
a	 Description of the field of study and the existing body of knowledge with 
reference to that. What don’t we know and understand? What has been 
neglected? What is the central object of the proposed research? And what is 
the research objective? Try as hard as you can to formulate your research 
interests in terms of a conceptual problem, in terms of what we don’t know 
or understand, in terms of something that we want to make understandable 
for others. Don’t focus to early on practical problems, things you want to 
solve in the practical sense.
Explanation
This part of the paper is directly inspired by what you have read in the litera­
ture, the interviews you held, the meetings you had with your (possible super­
visor), and what you wrote down in other assignments. In particular, the 
literature review will be of great value.
You can be sure that those texts contain sentences you are very pleased 
with, expressing exactly where you like to focus on. Use them! In this section 
you analyse the state of the research à propos your topic. Essentially, this sec­
tion is laying the foundation for your questions, your interest. The character of 
this section is an evaluation of what has already been researched as regards 
your topic.
b	 The core question. Which central question would you like to answer with the 
research? How do you unfold the central question into sub-questions, so that 
the joint answers will generate the answer to the central question?
Appendix I  181
Explanation
Take provisional decisions about the type of research questions you like to 
answer (in correspondence with your research objective). Core qualities of 
good questions (Bryman, 2008) are:
•	 Clear to you and others.
•	 Being researchable.
•	 There should be literature on which you can draw to help illuminate how 
your research question should be approached.
•	 Being able to contribute to topic knowledge.
•	 Being neither too broad nor too narrow.
The questions should have a steering function, indicating what different types 
of knowledge are required and what material needs to be gathered (Verschuren 
and Doorewaard, 2005).
3 The innovative character of the proposed project
What is the significance of your thesis? Does it contain an original contribution 
to the field of existing knowledge? Is it of specific social or theoretical 
relevance?
Explanation
The originality and relevance of a project can take many forms (Guetzkow, 
Lamont and Mallard, 2004): an original approach, an understudied area, an 
original topic, an original theory, an original method, original data, original 
results.
You can specify these main types of originality by asking yourself questions 
such as: will I formulate new questions?, will I study aspects of my topic that 
have been understudied until now?, will I bring together theoretical insights in 
an unexpected way?, will I bring together methods in an unexpected way?
182  Appendix I
4 Considerations regarding theory and prior 
research
Sketch of the dominant theoretical approaches and debates that will inspire 
your ambitions to answer your research questions. Which scholars in your field 
do you find especially relevant to your research objectives work?
Explanation
The foundation for all this information is lying in your literature search, litera­
ture notes, critical appraisal and literature review.
In this section you will explain from which perspective you will try to answer 
your research questions, for example, explaining the theoretical foundations 
for a hypothesis, a research argument, a claim.
In view of this assignment, we use the following working definition of 
theory. A theory is a collection of well-motivated, disciplinary embedded and 
researchable propositions/theses that try to explain or try to understand, for 
example, the existence or non-existence of a problem, the similarities and dif­
ferences between A&B [etc.], the appropriateness of a normative position, the 
(in)effectiveness of a measure, the plausibility of a development.
5 Proposition, hypotheses and concepts
What is the central proposition? Your argument? Which are the working 
hypotheses? What are the main theoretical concepts you intend to use?
Appendix I  183
6 The data and methods
Describe the empirical data, the sources, the documents to be used for answer­
ing each of the research questions. How do you intend to gather your data? Do 
you have whatever permission might be required? Have the necessary infor­
mants agreed to co-operate? Do you have access to the archives you need?
7 Additional information
a	 Who will be your supervisor of the research project you are preparing with 
this Proposal (Halfway)?
b	 List your publications that are relevant to the project.
c	 Provide a short and provisional bibliography of between 15 and 20 titles.
Provide concise and clear answers, based on the ideas and information you 
have at the moment of handing it in. When new data and theoretical insights 
become available, you may have other ideas and your plans may change 
accordingly. We will discuss your Proposal Halfway on …., or earlier if you like 
working on your Proposal ahead of the Proposal Lab scheme. You will hand in 
the Final Proposal on …
Having arrived at this point in your Proposal Halfway, you will heave a deep 
sigh of relief. Let it rest for a couple of days, re-read it, make some more 
improvements … and then … send it to your evaluators!
Appendix J
The disciplinary embedding 
assignment
Session 4 and Session 5
Disciplinary embedding: area/theme/subject/
essential others
To be sent to the Proposal Lab conveners before ……………..
In preparation for the session on disciplinary embedding, you will write down 
your research area, a specific research theme and your provisional research 
topic. In this assignment, we ask you to try and fill out a complete ‘specifica­
tion’. This can be done by working either ‘top-down’ (starting from your 
research subject) or ‘bottom-up’ (beginning at the topic of your research). (In 
most cases, you will use both methods.)
Please write down your specification on this form. Try to follow the specifi­
cation steps of:
•	 discipline;
•	 disciplinary subfield;
•	 your theme;
•	 essential ‘others’ (fellow researchers);
•	 their debates;
•	 remaining questions (in your view, in the opinion of other authors);
•	 your niche for doing something relevant, original;
•	 theoretical anchor points, as offered by other authors;
•	 your subject.
In case your subject is located at the meeting point of several disciplines, first 
clarify which disciplines are involved and how your research is anchored in 
those disciplines. If you will be working in more than one discipline, you will do 
the specification two times. Find out if researchers work at the meeting point 
of two or more disciplines on a subject that overlaps with your own interest.
Appendix J  185
We realize that issues 6, 7 and 8 (see below) can be difficult at this moment. 
You may keep these in reserve for the December meeting on the well-reasoned 
topic choice. But if you dare to try it now, we will gladly give feedback!
Name: _________________________
1.	 * Discipline (s)
2.	
* Sub-discipline
3.	
* [Sub-sub-discipline]
4.	 * The themes in your discipline that interests you
5.	
* Essential others (in view of your research theme or topic). Rely on your 
journal search. Who are the most important authors for you? You could 
try to find two authors with whom you agree and two with whom you dis­
agree. Explain your choice.
6.	 If possible: Their debates, their creative agreements, their creative dis­
agreements … 
7.	 If possible: … and their theories (theoretical, analytical, interpretative, 
explanatory frameworks) of relevance for the theme under study.
8.	 If possible: Remaining questions, research issues (in your view, in the 
opinion of other authors)
9.	 Your niche for doing something relevant, original (as you feel this 
moment)
10.	 Your provisional topic:
Name:______________________
Let’s assume you are very close to taking a decision on a well-reasoned topic 
choice. Please indicate in Table 6.6 what your preferences with respect to your 
research objective are. If appropriate, feel free to mark and explain more than 
one option. Table 6.7 presents the types of choices available.
Table 6.6  Your research perspective preference and your choices
Research perspectives 
Motivation
Theory-developing research
Theory-testing research
Problem-finding research
Diagnostic research
Evaluation research
Appendix K
The Question Practicum
Session 6
Table 6.7  Types of questions
Type of question
Examples
Your research 
question
Possible 
sub-questions
Type 1. Existence 
questions
‘Does x exist?’ Important 
when (non-)existence of 
something is controversial’ 
(Meltzoff, 2007)
1.
2.
3.
etc.
(Continued)
Appendix K  187
Type of question
Examples
Your research 
question
Possible 
sub-questions
Type 2. Questions 
of Description, 
Classification and 
Composition
‘What is x like? Is it 
variable or invariant? …. 
What are the components 
that make up x?’ (Meltzoff, 
2007) ‘What are its 
qualities, what 
characteristics does it 
have? How is it? What is it 
made of? Who or what 
does it involve? What does 
it look like?’ (Oost, 2003)
1.
2.
3.
etc.
3. Descriptive-
comparative 
questions
‘What are the differences? 
What are the similarities? 
In what ways are they 
different? In what ways do 
they overlap, are they the 
same?’ (Oost, 2003)
1.
2.
3.
etc.
Explanatory knowledge. Questions of relationship and explanation.
4. Relationship 
questions
‘Is there a relationship 
between x and y?’ 
(Meltzoff, 2007)
1.
2.
3.
etc.
5. Causality 
questions
‘Why is it so? How did it 
happen? What is this a 
consequence of? What 
reasons are there? What 
is its background? How 
could this happen?’ (Oost, 
2003)
1.
2.
3.
etc.
Evaluative knowledge
6. Questions of 
Evaluation
‘What is its worth? How 
well does it work? … What 
are its advantages and 
disadvantages?’ (Meltzoff, 
2007)
1.
2.
3.
etc.
Alternative types of questions
7. Other types of 
questions you 
consider
Table 6.7  (Continued)
188  Appendix K
Checklist for the elaboration into sub-questions
1	 Is every question formulated in a transparent way? Are all concepts clear 
and operational?
2	 Will the answers to the questions yield all the information necessary for 
answering the main (central, one-and-only, final) research question? No 
vital questions forgotten?
3	 Is every question necessary for answering the main research question!!!!!!!!!!!? 
Does every answer contribute to the conclusion? No redundancies?
4	 Have the sub- and sub-sub-questions been elaborated in a consistent, coher­
ent way? Will they yield a consistent overall image of the situation under 
study?
5	 Will you be able to answer all these questions in the time given?
What have been the greatest problems you encountered when turning your 
research interests into the format of questions?
1 Evaluation of interview reports
We assess the reports of the interviews on the following aspects:
1	 Substantive value of the interview. Does it contain important substantive 
information about
a	 the subject itself, but also about the response of the interviewee as 
regards
b	 the subject being a good option for a Master’s Thesis or PhD project?
2	 Information on the preparation of the interview:
a	 Overview of questions asked.
b	 The way the interviewee was informed. For example, via the text of an 
email message inviting the interviewee for the interview, or sending 
information about the research plans of the interviewer.
c	 The way the interviewer had collected information about the interviewee.
3	 The relationship between the interviewer and interviewee:
a	 Was the interviewer ‘on par’ with the interviewee, not only requesting 
information, but also providing information?
b	 Did the interviewer have concrete research plans that could be 
exchanged?
4	 Reflection on the interview, lessons that can be drawn for subsequent 
occasions.
5	 The quality of the report as a written document:
a	 Clear structure, use of subheadings.
b	 Detailed in substantive information.
c	 A narrative structure.
d	 Good combination of summary passages and quotes.
e	 It is also well defensible if the student reports in the form of a literal tran­
scription?
6	 Is evidence shown of having studied the methodological literature on inter­
viewing?
Appendix L
Evaluating individual research 
training assignments
190  Appendix L
Some observations
The quality of the interview strongly depends on the stage of the student’s 
choice of subject. Students who do not yet have a grip on their subject are very 
dependent on the interviews and are more the requesting party than formulat­
ing research suggestions to which they would like to receive a response. Their 
attitude has something of a submissiveness, they are consuming and not 
­producing.
A particularly good report looks like this.
Primarily, the report is intrinsically interesting to read. As readers we really 
learn from it. This is partly because the students are not too concise in 
reporting. If the self-defensible literal transcription of the interview is not 
chosen, the students will find a nice balance between the summary of the 
conversation and the use of appealing quotes. The students succeed well in 
bringing the interviewee’s reactions to the fore in a clear manner. The stu­
dents prepared the interview very well by informing the interviewee in 
advance about the issues that the interview would discuss. Sometimes the 
students have already sent a summary of their research ideas. It is also 
particularly good if the students show that they have studied publications by 
the interviewee before the interview. The students reflect well on the prepa­
ration of the interview, the progress (what went well, what went badly) and 
the relationship that developed with the interviewee. It is extra nice if the 
students occasionally connect this to the literature they read about inter­
viewing. The report shows that the students actively contributed their own 
plans to the interview. There was talk of equal interlocutors. It was a conver­
sation ‘on a high level’. The report makes it clear what the value of the inter­
view has been in view of taking decisions on the research topic. The report 
contains at least three parts: overview of the preparation, including the inter­
view questions; substantive report of what was discussed; reflection on the 
preparation, progress and results of the interview. We also need to be able 
to determine from the interview report whether the interview went well in all 
probability. A nice added value also arises if the students can place several 
interviews in a mutually comparative context, showing different views on the 
same issue.
2 Evaluation of the literature search report
A good report on the literature search will contain the following elements:
•	 The result: the articles and books that are key publications. Are there 15–20? 
Or more?
•	 Information on the diversity of literature sources. Has one also looked at 
sources other than just electronic (also consultation of experts, library 
visits)?
Appendix L  191
•	 An overview of the inclusion and exclusion criteria the student has used in 
determining which sources will be researched (quality level of journals, peri­
ods, language, etc.).
•	 A feeling for a not-too-narrow definition of inclusion and exclusion criteria.
•	 Ability to be flexible regarding including and excluding literature.
•	 The search terms used.
•	 How one has stored findings (Endnote, for example). Indication that the 
author has a feeling for the available possibilities to record results (Ref­
Works, End Note).
•	 Role of the literature search in the future of the research that is being done. 
Understanding the iterative character of the literature search. Indications 
that the author continues to search.
•	 A feeling for the issue of synonyms and language differences. Understand­
ing that different terms might relate to the same subject.
•	 The presence of an Introduction, including the leading question that steers 
the literature search.
•	 Presentation of the search terms that have been used.
•	 An overview of consulted databases.
•	 Clear and convincing criteria for determining the relevance of a publication.
•	 The ability to recognize the strengths and weaknesses of the search strategy 
and its results.
3 Evaluation of the critical appraisals
Checklist for reviewing publications, based on a compilation of checkpoints as 
presented by Greenhalgh (2010) (Table 6.8).
Table 6.8  Checkpoints for a literature review
Checkpoints to determine what the publication is about
Answer
1.	 Why was the study done (what question did it 
address)?
2.	 Did the publication address an important question?
3.	 What type of study was done?
a.	 Primary research
b.	 Secondary research
Checkpoints for the methods section of the paper
4.	 Is a method section part of the paper?
(Continued)
192  Appendix L
Checkpoints to determine what the publication is about
Answer
5.	 What methods did the researcher use for collecting 
data – and are these described in enough detail?
6.	 Was the study design appropriate to the broad field of 
research addressed?
7.	 Was the methodological approach appropriate?
8.	 Was a thorough search done of the appropriate literature?
9.	 Whom or what is the study about?
a.	 How were settings, participants and objects 
selected?
b.	 Who, what was included in, and who, what was 
excluded from the study?
10.	Has the author determined whether settings, partici­
pants, cases, objects are comparable?
11.	What kind of data has the author collected?
Checkpoints for robustness of publication
12.	Has the material been published in an independent 
peer-reviewed journal or book?
13.	Has any significant evidence or argument been omitted 
from this publication?
14.	Has author-bias been avoided?
15.	What was the researcher’s perspective, and has this 
been considered?
16.	How sensitive are the results to the way the research 
has been done?
17.	Did the publication involve a significant conflict of 
interests?
Checkpoints for evaluating the results
18.	Are the results credible, and if so, are they scientifically 
important?
19.	What conclusions were drawn, and are they justified by 
the results?
20.	Are the findings of the study transferable to other 
settings?
Checkpoint for further research
21.	What further research does the author believe is 
needed, and is this justified?
Table 6.8  (Continued)
Appendix L  193
Questions:
1	 Are all the elements of this checklist discussed in the report?
2	 Is the relationship made with one’s own research?
3	 Does the author succeed in interrelating multiple critical appraisals (com­
parative strength/weakness analysis of the two articles discussed)?
4	 Is the quality of the writing in order?
In summary, we could distinguish the following quality levels in the critical 
appraisals:
•	 Acceptable (6). Shows that the author has followed the points of attention as 
formulated in Appendix L, Evaluation of the critical appraisals’. But does 
that very succinctly and shows little critical judgement. The quality of the 
writing and the layout of the paper are just acceptable.
•	 More than sufficient (7). The author deals with all the items of the form, is 
critical, substantiates the criticism but gives little information about the con­
tent of the articles studied.
•	 Good (8). Follows all items of the form, critically assesses, substantiates the 
opinion, writes in an informative way about the articles and the quality of 
the writing is good.
•	 Very good (9). Is critical in all respects. The criticism is well founded. Pro­
vides a lot of substantive information about the publication. Uses a compar­
ative perspective and relates the publications to their own research. The 
paper is well written.
Red flags while writing a critical appraisal
Make students aware that if they use words (and they will!) like: ‘I feel’, ‘I am 
quite sure’, ‘I believe’, ‘I do not have the feeling that’, ‘I cannot tell for sure’, ‘it is 
my feeling’, ‘my intuitive guess is’… they should immediately ask themselves 
whether they can substantiate that conclusion properly.
4 The evaluation of a literature review
A literature review consists of the following elements (with an indication of 
evaluation criteria) (Table 6.9).
194  Appendix L
Table 6.9  Elements of a literature review
Dimensions
Presentation of research questions that lead literature review
Showing the importance of the review and why the reader 
needs to read it
Roadmap for reader of literature review
Component
Literature review
Dimensions
Comprehensive
Up to date
Shows critical and analytical thinking about the literature, so 
not just being a summary of what has been read
Command of the literature
Selectivity, discriminating between important and 
unimportant works
Thematic structuring 
Alignment with research question 
Showing strengths and limitations of literature
Component
Discussion/conclusion
Dimensions
Summary
Refers to introduction
Ties everything together
Implications and applications for author’s own research
Evaluation aspect
Presentation, quality of writing
Dimensions
Broken up the text in paragraphs with appropriate 
subheadings
No excessive use of jargon
Not quoting excessively when presenting the literature
Fully acknowledged the work of others
A good literature review shows a critical appraisal of the literature. This means 
students will assess the articles and books from a peer review perspective. 
They will indicate the strong and weak aspects of the work in question in terms 
of quality and methodology, the type of research that is used, whether there is 
a sharp problem and a clear research question, whether the research question 
is answered.
Table 6.10  SWOT analysis of proposal-half way
Your knowledge of 
supervisor’s expectations 
regarding: 
1.	Timing of project
2.	Length of your 
appointment/scholarship
3.	Format of the thesis:
a.	Coherence important? 
b.	Number of articles
c.	Status of journals
4.	Evaluation criteria in view 
of proposal
5.	Who will be the 
evaluators?
Your feeling as regards 
congruence between 
supervisors (for example, 
in view of expectations)
Your knowledge of financial 
conditions
Your knowledge of 
agreements regarding (co-) 
authorship
Other information 
issues…….
Strength
Weakness
Your skills, your 
knowledge: 
  1.	How to plan
  2.	How to work with 
flowcharts
  3.	How to get from 
topic to question
  4.	Literature search
  5.	Critical appraisal of 
literature
  6.	Characteristics of a 
literature review
  7.	Role of theory / 
hypothesis / claim 
in the proposal
  8.	The Proposal 
Format
  9.	Research design in 
your discipline
10.	Quality criteria 
applying to proposal
11.	How to make an 
original contribution
12.	80 per cent ready 
model
13.	Proficiency in English
14.	Managing 
supervisors
Other skills…………
Opportunity
Threat
Appendix M
SWOT analysis by candidates 
already halfway to a proposal 
(the Clinic)
The overview is based on a PhD trajectory of 4 years. In case of ‘dual’ or ‘exter­
nal’ candidates (with no employee status as a PhD candidate and working part-
time on their project), we depart from a multiplier of 1.5 (i.e., a PhD trajectory 
of 6 years). The overview has been composed based on advice by supervisors 
working in the technical and educational disciplines. It must be adapted to the 
requirements of your own discipline and field of research (Table 6.11).
Appendix N
Expectations in view of a 
4 year PhD project
Table 6.11   Timetable for 4 year PhD project
Monitoring moment
At the end of the 
first year (in case of 
full-time trajectory) 
or after 1 1/2 years 
(in case of part-time 
trajectory)  
Required
Material on behalf of 
the evaluation
In co-operation with the 
supervisor/advisor, the PhD 
candidate is formulating 
realistic expectations 
regarding the PhD trajectory 
(who will be my readers?, 
will I author my thesis as a 
monograph?, will my thesis 
consist of articles?, what is 
my post-PhD career 
perspective?, how much 
time do I have available for 
my thesis work?, what will I 
do next to my thesis work 
(for example, teaching, 
etc.)?
A note on 
expectations, written 
by the PhD 
candidate, co-signed 
by the supervisor/
advisor 
(Continued)
Appendix N  197
The PhD candidate has 
made the research into 
his/her own project, has 
developed a personal 
vision on the research 
project
a.	 A research design 
/ proposal 
formulated by the 
PhD candidate him 
or herself, or
b.	 An updated 
version of the 
original plan.
The PhD candidate has an 
overview of the literature 
and can sketch the context 
of the research (what has 
been ‘solved,’ where are 
lying my possibilities for a 
relevant and original 
contribution)
Literature review (of 
books and journals)
The PhD candidate is 
capable of the development 
and explication of the 
theoretical framework
The PhD candidate has 
control of the technical 
skills to execute the 
research
Written report 
about the technical 
execution of an 
experiment, a pilot 
study, etc. 
The PhD candidate has a 
budget for extra training
The PhD candidate is 
capable of the organization 
of the data collection
See research plan / 
proposal / design
The PhD candidate has 
collected a first set of data 
and results
Report on results of 
experiment / test / 
pilot study / case 
study, etc. 
A 3/4 version of a 
journal paper 
The PhD candidate has 
presented first results in 
his or her own research 
group or department
Written full text of the 
presentation (not 
only PowerPoint 
slides) 
The PhD candidate is 
participating actively in his 
or her research group
Presence + 
presentation
Table 6.11  (Continued)
(Continued)
198  Appendix N
The PhD candidate has 
started to build his or her 
own network
Optional 
PhD candidate is preparing 
himself or herself for 
teaching 
Evidence of 
participation in 
course 
PhD candidate has 
presented first results 
outside the department
Written full text of the 
presentation (not only 
PowerPoint slides)
End of the second 
year (full-time), end 
third year (part-time)
Required
Increasingly the PhD 
candidate contributes 
independently to the 
project (proposes new 
actions, writes increasingly 
independently [the 
supervisor’s contribution 
changes of character], 
proposes by own initiative 
topics for new papers
Shown, for example, 
in the discussion part 
of journal articles or 
in conference papers
PhD candidate has 
collected his or her own 
data and analysed them 
autonomously 
Report on results
PhD candidate has 
received training in the 
writing of scientific papers
PhD candidate has drafted 
a report on his or her 
results
Paper or journal 
article I 
PhD candidate has 
presented his or her results 
(internally or externally)
Text of presentation 
(not only PowerPoint 
slides)
PhD candidate has sought 
co-operation independently 
(internally and externally)
Report on behalf of 
supervisor
Table 6.11  (Continued)
(Continued)
Appendix N  199
PhD candidate has made a 
time schedule for the 
completion of the thesis 
and is controlling the 
realization
Planning Matrix
Regular reports on 
realization 
Optional
PhD candidate has 
prepared teaching 
Evidence of 
participation in 
course
PhD candidate has taught 
a course
End of third year 
(full-time) / after 
4.5 years (part-time)
Required
Candidate develops a 
personal view on research
Candidate starts 
co-developing a new 
research project with 
supervisor (for 
example in view of 
post-PhD career
Candidate starts to get 
more knowledge on topic 
than supervisor
PhD candidate has 
collected his or her own 
data and analysed them 
autonomously
PhD candidate has drafted 
a report on his or results
Paper II and/or III
PhD candidate has 
presented his or her results 
(externally)
Full text of 
presentation (not just 
the PowerPoint 
slides)
Candidate has written first 
version of introduction 
chapter of thesis 
Draft, presented to 
supervisors
Candidate and supervisor 
exchange ideas about 
post-PhD career
Conversation
Table 6.11  (Continued)
(Continued)
200  Appendix N
Candidate can conclude by 
himself or herself when a 
research activity can be 
considered to be 
completed
Desirable/
optional 
Candidate has taught a 
course
Candidate and supervisor 
exchange ideas about new 
research (to be started 
after completion of thesis)
First note by 
candidate on 
application for new 
research grant
End of fourth year 
(full-time), after 6 
years (part-time)
Required
Candidate develops 
personal view on research
Application for new 
research grant (if 
candidate wants to 
go on in research 
career)
PhD candidate has 
presented results 
(externally)
Full text of 
introduction (not just 
PowerPoint slides)
Completed the thesis
Handing in 
manuscript for final 
check by supervisors 
Desirable/
optional
Preparation of new 
research project
Application for 
subsidy with national 
or international 
research organization
Table 6.11  (Continued)
Appendix O
Planning Matrix PhD trajectory
Research and other activities
202  Appendix O
Table 6.12  Planning the PhD journey
First year
Second year
Third year
Fourth year
1st 
quarter
2nd 3rd
4th
1st
2nd 3rd
4th
1st
2nd 3rd
4th
1st
2nd 3rd
4th
Courses, substantive (disciplinary content)
Courses, skills 
Definitive research Plan
Handing in First year Training and 
Supervision Plan (see Appendix Q)
Handing in Second year Training and 
Supervision Agreement
Handing in Third year Training and 
Supervision Agreement
Handing in Fourth year Training and 
Supervision Agreement
Evaluation first year
Evaluation second year 
Evaluation third year 
Evaluation fourth year 
Teaching
Attending courses in preparation of teaching
Appendix O  203
Article 1, submission
Article 2, submission
Article 3, submission (?)
Attending national conference 
Attending international conference
Literature Review
Chapter on used methodologies (or 
methods section per article/chapter?) 
Study visits abroad
Draft of introduction chapter 
Definite version of Introduction 
Finishing data collection 
Chapter 2 (article 1?)
Chapter 3 (article 2?)
Chapter 4 (article 3?)
Chapter 5 (article 4?)
Concluding chapter
Thesis goes to supervisor for approval
Thesis goes to committee
Orientation as to post-PhD life
Appendix P
At the end of the proposal 
journey
SWOT Analysis in view of a (future) PhD 
project
Table 6.13  SWOT analysis in view of a (future) PhD project
Aspects to be considered 
in SWOT analysis
•	 Quality of writing
•	 Regularity of meetings 
with supervision team
•	 Transparency of quality 
criteria used by 
supervisors
•	 Planning of the project
•	 Balance between 
project and other 
activities
•	 Embedding in intellec­
tual community (↔ 
isolation)
•	 Disposal of research 
techniques (methods, 
writing notes, literature 
search, critical 
appraisal of sources, 
literature review 
techniques)
•	 Ethical aspects of the 
project
•	 Connection between 
prior training and 
qualities required by 
the project
Strengths
Opportunities
Weaknesses
Threats
Aspects to be 
considered in SWOT 
analysis
•	 Knowing which 
sources or data 
are needed to 
answer the 
research questions
•	 Having a view on 
the structure of the 
possible disserta­
tion (remember 
Eco’s provisional 
table of contents)
•	 Planning of 
occasions where 
work in progress 
will be presented
•	 Having the 
initiative in the 
preparation of 
meetings with 
supervisors
•	 Demonstration of 
knowledge of the 
literature and its 
position in 
dissertation
(Continued)
Appendix P  205
•	 Language proficiency 
(English)
•	 Originality of the topic
•	 Relevance of the topic
•	 Grip on earlier scientific 
work regarding the 
topic
•	 Quality of the primary 
research question
•	 Ability to unfold primary 
research question into 
a set of sub-questions
•	 Feeling for supervisor’s 
expectations
•	 Feeling for role of 
central research 
argument, claim, 
hypothesis
•	 Having a grip on the 
concept of theory
•	 Clarity of the 
research problem
•	 Clarity of concepts 
that are used
•	 Grip on broader 
context of the topic
•	 Grip on the history 
of your topic
•	 Justification of 
chosen texts, 
sources, neces­
sary data
•	 Expertise in and 
availability of 
software that may 
be useful for data 
collection and data 
analysis
•	 Locating the 
project in what has 
been done before
•	 Ability to describe 
the project in a 
brief way (an 
abstract)
•	 Ability to explain 
the project to 
non-specialists
•	 Knowledge of 
sampling (selec­
tion of segment of 
sources, popula­
tion, geographical 
or historical units 
for research)
Major worry in view of the project, at this moment:
Table 6.13  (Continued)
Appendix Q
Training and supervision plan
Table 6.14  Important issues to be settled and evaluated regularly by PhD 
candidate and supervisor
Name of PhD candidate: ________________________________
Name of supervisor: ____________________________________
Title of PhD project: ____________________________________
Date: ________________________________________________
Task
Topic
Space for notes by PhD candidate 
and  supervisor
1
Names of other supervisors/advisors 
involved in supervision of the project
2
Do PhD candidate and supervisors 
have sufficient knowledge of 
regulations, codes of conduct, etc. in 
force at institute, graduate school 
where the PhD trajectory takes 
place? In other words: are PhD 
candidate and supervisors familiar 
with the local ‘rules of the game’?
3
Are changes in the supervision 
arrangement to be expected in view 
of departure or stay abroad of 
supervisors/advisors?
4
(For foreign PhD candidates) Has a 
request for exemption of local exams 
been submitted and granted (for 
example, exemption of local Master’s 
diploma after completion of Master’s 
abroad)?
(Continued)
Appendix Q  207
Task
Topic
Space for notes by PhD candidate 
and  supervisor
5
Activities in prior period:
–	 what were the planned activities?
–	 which activities have been 
completed successfully?
–	 reasons for non-completion (in case)
–	 consequences for coming period
6
Planning of research activities in 
coming period
Activity 1
Activity 2
Activity 3
Activity 4
Activity 5
Activity 6
Activity 7
7
Have other activities been taken into 
account when making the research 
planning (teaching, preparation of 
teaching, conference visits, writing of 
articles, papers, pregnancy or 
parental leave, etc.)? Mention those 
other activities. 
8
Will the PhD candidate prepare 
himself or herself for the teaching by 
taking educational training?
9
Have the financial preconditions for 
the PhD research been settled with 
the institutional authorities?
10
Are infrastructure conditions okay 
(computer facilities, software, 
measurement equipment, etc.)?
11
Have strengths and weaknesses of 
the PhD candidate been mapped or 
updated (in view of extra training or 
extra courses, etc.)?
In case of desirable improvements, 
how will they be taken care of?
Table 6.14  (Continued)
(Continued)
208  Appendix Q
Task
Topic
Space for notes by PhD candidate 
and  supervisor
12
Courses and extra training in next 
period
13
Intentions with respect to meetings 
with peers, research group 
colleagues, consultation of external 
experts
14
What are the agreements with 
respect to the progress evaluation in 
the coming period (content and 
procedure)? Think about:
•	 Material to be handed in, for 
example, definite version of 
research proposal/design, 
literature review, conference paper, 
journal article, report on data 
collection, work planning for 
coming period, provisional table of 
contents of dissertation, chapters, 
etc.
•	 Date on which the material will be 
handed in
•	 Evaluators who will be involved in 
progress evaluation
•	 Criteria that will be in force during 
the evaluation process
15
When and in which journals will it be 
published?
16
When will supervisor and PhD 
candidate communicate about 
post-PhD career options?
17
Are the expectations with respect to 
the dissertation and the quality and 
quantity of research data 
transparent? What are the 
components of the dissertation, 
which criteria does the dissertation 
has to meet to be evaluated by the 
supervisor as acceptable, [very] 
good, etc.?
Table 6.14  (Continued)
(Continued)
Appendix Q  209
Task
Topic
Space for notes by PhD candidate 
and  supervisor
18
What working agreements have been 
made between the PhD student and 
the (research) supervisor for the 
coming period (let’s say, the coming 
year)?
When and on which occasion will the 
PhD student and supervisor see 
each other?
Meeting 1, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 2, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 3, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 4, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 5, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 6, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 7, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 8, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 9, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Meeting 10, date…………………; 
topic and product 
…………………………………..
Table 6.14  (Continued)
(Continued)
210  Appendix Q
Task
Topic
Space for notes by PhD candidate 
and  supervisor
19
Considering the work to be done  
and/or evaluating the progress in the 
past period, what kind and intensity 
of supervision do PhD candidate and 
supervisor consider as optimal for 
the completion of the project?
Table 6.14  (Continued)
Allen, D.W. and Melnik, M.A. (1972) The Development of a Clinic to Improve University 
Teaching by the School of Education at the University of Massachusetts (Amherst). 
Amherst, MA: University of Massachusetts, School of Education.
Aveyard, H. (2007) Doing a Literature Review in Health and Social Care: A Practical 
Guide. Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Becker, H.S. (1986) Writing for Social Scientists: How to Start and Finish Your Thesis, 
Book, or Article. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Becker, H.S. (1998) Tricks of the Trade: How to Think About Your Research While You’re 
Doing It. Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Bell, E., Bryman, A. and Harley, B. (n.d.) Research Project Guide. Oxford University 
Press. Available at: https://learninglink.oup.com/static/5bf28a25d910f40011b79ade/
index.htm (accessed 23 Sept. 2021).
Booth, W.C., Colomb, G.G. and Williams. J.M. (2008) The Craft of Research (3rd edn). 
Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Booth, W.C., Colomb. G.G. Williams. J.M., Bizup, J. and FitzGerald, W.T. (2016) The Craft 
of Research (4th edn). Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Bordens, K.S. and Abbott, B.B. (2008) Research Design and Methods. New York: McGraw-
Hill Higher Education.
Bowen, W.G. and Rudenstine, N.L. (1992) In Pursuit of the PhD. Princeton, NJ: Princeton 
University Press.
Brewer, R. (2007) Your PhD Thesis: How to Plan, Draft, Revise and Edit Your Thesis. 
Abergele: Studymates Limited.
Bryman, A. (2008) Social Research Methods (3rd edn). Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Colman, A.M. (2009) Oxford Dictionary of Psychology. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Corbin, J, and Strauss, A. (2008) Basics of Qualitative Research. Los Angeles, CA: SAGE 
Publications.
Delamont, S., Atkinson, P. and Parry, O. (2004) Supervising the Doctorate: A Guide to 
Success. London: The Society for Research into Higher Education.
DiscoverPhDs (2021) PhD failure rate: A study of 26,076 PhD candidates. Available at: 
https://www.discoverphds.com/advice/doing/phd-failure-rate (accessed 6 Sept. 2021).
Eco, U. (1977) Come si fa una tesi di laurea. Milan: Bompiani.
Eco, U. (2005) Hoe schrijf ik een scriptie (12th edn). Amsterdam: Pockethuis in samen­
werking met Uitgeverij Bert Bakker.
Eley, A.R. and Jennings, R. (2005) Effective Postgraduate Supervision: Improving the 
Student/Supervisor Relationship. Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Gage, N.L. (1972) Teacher Effectiveness and Teacher Education: The Search for a Scien­
tific Basis. San Francisco, CA: Pacific Books.
Glaser, B.G. and Strauss, A.L. (2009) The Discovery of Grounded Theory: Strategies for 
Qualitative Research. New Brunswick, NJ: Aldine Transaction.
Gosling, P. and Noordam, B. (2006) Mastering Your PhD: Survival and Success in the 
Doctoral Years and Beyond. Berlin: Springer-Verlag.
Greenhalgh, T. (2010) How to Read a Paper: The Basics of Evidence-Based Medicine 
(4th edn). Oxford: Wiley-Blackwell.
Bibliography
212  Bibliography
Guetzkow, J., Lamont, M. and Mallard, G. (2004) What is originality in the social sciences 
and humanities?, American Sociological Review 69(2): 190–212. https://www.
researchgate.net/publication/241644109_What_Is_Originality_in_the_Social_
Sciences_and_the_Humanities
Hunt, J. and Nhlengethwa, S. (2009) The Art of the Idea and How It Can Change Your 
Life. New York: PowerHouse Books.
Lamont, M. (2009) How Professors Think: Inside the Curious World of Academic Judg­
ment. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Loehle, C. (2010) Becoming a Successful Scientist: Strategic Thinking for Scientific 
Discovery. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Lovitts, B.E. (2001) Leaving the Ivory Tower: The Causes and Consequences of Depar­
ture from Doctoral Study. Lanham, MD: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers.
Lovitts, B.E. (2007) Making the Implicit Explicit: Creating Performance Expectations 
for the Thesis. Sterling, VA: Stylus Publishing.
Malmfors, B., Garnsworthy, P. and Grossman, M. (2002) Writing and Presenting Scien­
tific Papers. Nottingham: Nottingham University Press.
Manathunga, C. (2005) Early warning signs in postgraduate research education: A differ­
ent approach to ensuring timely completions. Teaching in Higher Education, 10: 
219–33.
Meltzoff, J. (2007) Critical Thinking About Research: Psychology and Related Fields 
(9th edn). Washington, DC: American Psychological Association.
Mirande, M.J.A. (1986) De student als beginnend onderzoeker, doctoral thesis. University 
of Amsterdam.
Mohd Tahir, A. and Asmuni, A. (2016) Community of practice in doctoral education. 
Paper presented at Graduate Research in Education Seminar (GREDuc 2016), 
­Universiti Putra Malaysia, Selangor, 17 December (pp. 464–70). Serdang: Faculty of 
Educational Studies, UPM.
Okorocha, E. (2007) Supervising International Research Students. London: Society for 
Research into Higher Education.
Oost, H. (2003) Circling Around a Question. Utrecht: IVLOS Institute of Education, 
Utrecht University.
Oost, H. (2004) Een onderzoek begeleiden. Baarn: HB Uitgevers.
Oost, H. (2006) Methods of Legal Research. Tilburg: Tilburg Law School.
Oost, H., Sonneveld, H. and van Gestel, R. (2013) Rubrics Final Assignment 2008: Eval­
uation Criteria. Tilburg: Tilburg Law School.
Pawson, R. and Tilley, N. (2008) Realistic Evaluation. London: Sage.
Perlberg, A. (1976) The use of laboratory systems in improving university teaching. 
Higher Education, 5: 135–51.
Phillips, E.M. and Johnson, C.G. (2022) How to Get a PhD: A Handbook for Students and 
Their Supervisors (7th edn). Maidenhead: Open University Press.
Punch, K.F. (2016) Developing Effective Research Proposals (3rd edn). London: Sage.
Roberts, A. (n. d.) Advice about writing a report, a dissertation or a thesis. Available at: 
http://studymore.org.uk/reports.htm (accessed 23 Sept. 2021).
Robinson, A. (2010) Sudden Genius? The Gradual Path to Creative Breakthroughs. 
Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Seldin, P. (1976) Teaching professors how to teach. Paper presented at the Second Inter­
national Conference on Improving University Teaching, Heidelberg.
Snieder, R. and Larner, K. (2009) The Art of Being a Scientist: A Guide for Graduate 
Students and Their Mentors. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Bibliography  213
Sonneveld, H. (1997) Promotoren, promovendi en de academische selectie. De collectiv­
isering van het Nederlandse promotiestelsel. Amsterdam: Amsterdam University 
Press.
Sonneveld, H. (2009) Brief aan een startende promovendus. Utrecht: Medisch-
Onderwijskundig Promovendi Netwerk / Nederlands Centrum voor de Promotieo­
pleiding.
Sonneveld, H. (2014) Supervisors at Work: Guidance of PhD Candidates at the Graduate 
School of Electrical Engineering, Mathematics and Computer Science. Delft: Gradu­
ate School EEMCS.
Sonneveld, H. (2015) Verslag project Langpromoveerders. Tilburg: Tilburg Law School.
Sonneveld, H., Hello, E. and Schoot, R. van de. (2011) Promovendimonitor 2011. Pro­
movendi van de Universiteit Utrecht. Hun oordeel over opleiding, begeleiding en 
onderzoeksfaciliteiten. Utrecht: Centrum voor Onderwijs en Leren / Expertisecen­
trum Graduate Schools Universiteit Utrecht.
Sonneveld, H. and Scager, K. (2008) De Kwaliteit van de Promotiebegeleiding bij het 
Onderzoeksinstituut Geschiedenis en Cultuur – Evaluatierapport. Utrecht: Ivlos/
Nederlands Centrum voor de Promotieopleiding.
Stebbins, R.A. (2001) Exploratory Research in the Social Sciences. Thousand Oaks, CA: 
Sage Publications.
Turabian, K.L. (2007) A Manual for Writers of Research Papers, Theses, and Disserta­
tions (7th edn). Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Verschuren, P. and Doorewaard, H. (2005) Designing a Research Project. Utrecht: 
Lemma.
Watts, M. (2001) The Holy Grail: In pursuit of the dissertation proposal, University of 
California. Available at: https://dusk.geo.orst.edu/prosem/PDFs/InPursuitofPhD.pdf. 
(accessed 22 Aug. 2021).
Wright Mills, C. (1970) The Sociological Imagination. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
Page numbers in italics are figures; with ‘t’ are tables; in bold are the appendices.
Abbott, B.B. 65, 125, 128
abstracts 101, 169–70, 171, 180
action summaries 45–6
admission of doctoral candidates 13–15, 
23–5
aftercare 92
anxieties 76
appendices
A (literature tips) 30, 145–7
B (Proposal Lab prospectus) 26, 
148–53, 151t
C (example of a Proposal Lab 
Schedule) 154–9t
D (Snapshot) 5t, 24, 56, 87, 98, 98, 
160–2
E (Rough Topic Exploration Matrix) 
55, 56, 86, 87, 90, 163, 164t
F (planning the well-reasoned topic 
choice and proposal design) 5t, 
6t, 46, 99, 165–6t, 166–8t
G (criteria for evaluating research 
questions) 6t, 7t, 39, 40, 44, 45, 59, 
62, 100, 104, 105, 123, 169–76
H (Well-reasoned Topic Choice) 6t, 56, 
177–8
I (Proposal Halfway form) 6t, 7t, 39, 
45, 82, 101, 179–83
J (Disciplinary Embedding 
Assignment) 106, 107, 109–10, 
111, 184–5
K (Question Practicum) 6t, 7t, 61, 101, 
121, 186–7t, 188
L (evaluating individual research 
training) 5t, 47, 59, 60, 94, 100, 
101, 113, 114, 116, 117–18, 119, 
189–91, 191–2t, 193, 194t
M (SWOT analysis for halfway) 9t, 
195
N (expectations in view of a 4 year 
PhD project) 40–1, 104, 
196–200t
O (Planning Matrix PhD trajectory) 
40, 104, 202–3t
P (SWOT analysis in view of future 
PhD project) 79, 204–5t
Q (Training and Supervision Plan) 
202t, 206–10t
application, and Proposal Lab 23, 149
assignments, Proposal Lab 150, 151–2, 
165–6t, 166–7t
Atkinson, P., Supervising the Doctorate 
147
attrition 15–16
Aveyard, H. 57, 59, 106–7, 111, 119, 145
Becker, Howard 55, 76–7, 84, 146
bibliography 174, 183
Bizup, J, The Craft of Research 145–6
Booth, W.C. 55, 59, 63, 84, 110, 112, 123, 
126
The Craft of Research 66, 145–6
Bordens, K.S. 65, 125, 128
Bowen, W.G. 12
Brewer, R. 45, 100
Your PhD Thesis 39
Bryman, A. 66–7, 68, 102, 115–16, 
122–3
buffer time 43–4
calendar, Proposal Lab 27–30, 28–30t
candidates, types 90–1, 135–6
Clinic model 2, 8–10, 9–10t, 10t, 17, 195
collaboration 21
communication, problems with 74–5
community of practice see Proposal 
Lab
comparison 132
components of a proposal 39–40
concepts see hypotheses/propositions/
concepts
consistency 174–5
context 132
Corbin, J. 132
core questions 39, 61, 102, 180
critical appraisal, of literature 114, 
117–18, 191–3
Index
Index  215
data 103, 129–33, 183
Delamont, S., Supervising the Doctorate 
147
design, research 66–9, 173
disciplinary embedding 56–7, 109–13, 
152–3, 184–5
diversity 50
of subjects 88t
Doorewaard, H. 67
Eco, Umberto 39, 43
‘80 percent ready model’ 48
essential tension 21–2
evaluation
on PhD student’s work 139–41, 140t
of Proposal Lab programme 139
of proposals 68
self- 76, 78, 85, 89t
of supervision 53
expectations, from supervisors 48–9
external PhD candidates 8
feedback, Proposal Lab 23, 86–92, 88–9t, 
119–21, 134
final proposal 39, 40, 42, 98, 104, 134, 
161t
finances 2, 71, 79
FitzGerald, W.T., The Craft of Research 
145–6
flexibility 43, 50–1
Gestel, Rob van 40, 104
Glaser, B.G. 125
Gosling, P., Mastering Your PhD 146
Greenhalgh, T. 117, 145
group approach 33
Guetzkow, J. 60
What is Originality 104, 105
guides, PhD 75–6
Hunt, J. 146–7
hypotheses/propositions/concepts 66–7, 
103, 124–5, 182
independence 51
interviewing 25, 153
Proposal Lab session 93–7, 98, 99, 
189–90
for supervisors 46–7
intervision 44–5, 46t
introduction (PhD thesis) 8, 122
Johnson, Colin, How to Get a PhD 47, 145
journey to a proposal see roadmap to a 
proposal
knowledge 22–3, 149
Laboratory model 17
see also Proposal Lab
Lamont, M., What is Originality 104
Larner, K., The Art of Being a Scientist 
147
literature
on PhD proposals 30, 145–7
review 56–60, 98, 98, 99, 107–8, 
111–12, 114–19, 115, 193–4, 194t
search 106–13, 153, 190–1
Loehle, Craig 112
Lovitts, Barbara 12–13
Making the Implicit Explicit 40, 146
Machine Trick 76–7, 81
Mallard, G., What is Originality 104
Manathunga, C. 138
meetings 72–3
Proposal Lab feedback 86–92, 88–9t, 
119–21
Meltzoff, J. 124
methods 103, 173, 183
mini-courses 17
Mirande, M.J.A. 17–18
Nhlengethwa, S. 146
Noordam, B., Mastering Your PhD 146
note-taking 59, 114, 116–17, 157t
Oost, Heinze 40, 104, 129
originality 60–1, 102, 104–5, 172, 181
Parry, O., Supervising the Doctorate 147
paths to proposal 33–6, 34–5t
Pawson, R. 64, 124, 125
peer review 21, 35
peer support 44, 46, 71–5, 88t
PhD journey 5–7t
Phillips, Estelle, How to Get a Phd 47, 
145
planning a PhD 2, 22, 41–2, 42, 46
candidates’/supervisors’ plans 3–4, 
3–4t, 32, 33, 34–5t
and the Proposal Lab 97–9, 98, 103–4, 
202–3
216  Index
preconditions 54–5
process 132
Proposal Halfway 38, 40, 81, 98, 99, 103, 
104, 134, 153, 183
reflection 175
SWOT analysis 70–1
Proposal Lab 18–19, 30, 35–6
admission 13–15, 23–5
calendar 27–30, 28–30t
didactic background 17–22
goals 16–17
history 12–13
individual feedback meetings 86–92, 
88–9t
well-reasoned topic choice 119–21
see also Proposal Halfway
interviewing researchers/planning the 
proposal 93–100, 98
literature
review 57–8, 98, 98, 99, 114–19, 115, 
152
search 106–13
objectives 22–3
proposal 100–6
prospectus 25–6
research design 128–34
research questions 121–4
roadmap of the journey 26–7, 26–7
and student attrition 15–16
support for students 2, 3, 11
and theory 65, 124–8, 172–3
and topics 80–6, 98, 119–21
propositions see hypotheses
prospectus, Proposal Lab (Appendix B) 
26, 148–53, 151t
Question Practicum (Appendix K) 6t, 7t, 
61, 101, 121, 186–7t, 188
questions
core 39, 61, 102, 180
research 61–3, 68, 69, 98, 101, 121–4, 
153, 171, 175–6, 180–1
see also Question Practicum
reflection 175
relevance 104–5
reliability 66
research design 66–9, 173
Proposal Lab 128–34
research files 41, 46, 83–4
research questions 61–3, 68, 69, 98, 101, 
121–4, 153, 171, 175–6, 180–1
roadmap to a proposal 26–7, 26–7, 31–2, 
36–46, 37–8, 42, 45t
end of the proposal journey 78–9
preconditions 53–4
problems and concerns 70–7
stages 54–69
supervisors/convenors 46–53
Robinson, Andrew, ‘Sudden Genius?’ 82
Rough Topic Exploration Matrix (App. 
E) 55–6, 86, 87, 90, 163, 164t
Rudenstine, N.L. 12
schedule 72, 154–9t
self-evaluation 76, 78, 85, 89t
Session 1 (Proposal Lab) research topics 
80–6
Session 2 (Proposal Lab) meeting and 
interviewing researchers/
planning the proposal 93–100, 98
Session 3 (Proposal Lab) the PhD 
proposal 100–6
Session 4 (Proposal Lab) searching for 
the important literature 106–13
Session 5 (Proposal Lab) literature 
review 114–19, 115
Session 6 (Proposal Lab) research 
questions 121–4
Session 7 (Proposal Lab) theory/
hypothesis/claim 124–8
Session 8 (Proposal Lab) research 
design 128–34
skills, and Proposal Lab 23, 149
Snapshot 5t, 24, 56, 87, 98, 98, 160–2
Snieder, R., The Art of Being a Scientist 
147
solo preparation 33
Stebbins, R.A. 83
Strauss, A. 132
Strauss, A.L. 125
strengths/weaknesses 79, 87, 88–9t, 91–2
summaries 55–6
supervisors 1, 46–53, 85
advice from colleagues on 72, 73–4
choosing 22, 98
and the Machine Trick 77
and original study 105
support for students 2–11, 3–4t, 5–7t, 
9–10t, 10t
Index  217
training and supervision plan 206–10t
support, for students 2–11, 3–4t, 5–7t, 
9–10t, 10t
SWOT analysis
Proposal Halfway 70–1, 195
in view of a (future) PhD project 
204–5t
theory 63–6, 102, 172–3
and Proposal Lab 124–8, 182
Tilley, N. 64, 124, 125
time 72, 73, 76
title of the research project 101
tools of the trade programme 17
topics 54–5
and Proposal Lab 5t, 6t, 46, 80–6, 98, 
99, 165–6t, 166–8t, 177–8
Rough Topic Exploration Matrix 
(App. E) 55–6, 86, 87, 90, 163, 164t
Training and Supervision Plan 206–10t
transparency 131
types of students/PhD candidates 90–1, 
135–6
underperformance 136–41, 140t
validity 67
Verschuren, P. 67
Watts, M. 45
weaknesses see strengths/weaknesses
Williams, J.M., The Craft of Research 
145–6
Wright Mills, C. 41, 83
Doctoral proposals are a vital part of the PhD process, but often this key phase is 
neglected. This book provides handy, digestible guidance suitable for supervisors and 
students alike.
For supervisors, this book is a manual with clear theoretical underpinnings that help to 
clearly guide students through the proposal stage. For students, it is a handbook that 
brings potential PhD candidates up to speed and offers guidance on the necessary skills 
required to write a proposal alongside how to deal with the challenges faced during this 
stage. 
Key features of this book include:
• Didactic tools and assignments that are of direct use for writing the 
proposal and supervising it
• Helpful reading tips at the start of each chapter
• Clear travel guide structure to take the supervisor and the student on a 
journey through each stage of the proposal
Based on the well-established ‘Proposal Lab’ programme designed to provide 
faculty guidance and peer support, The Art of Writing a PhD Proposal provides a 
comprehensive, indispensable, step-by-step guide to writing a good proposal and to 
getting students and their supervisors off to a flying start.
Dr Hans Sonneveld has been a specialist in the field of doctoral studies for over 35 
years. He is a board member and the Founder of the Netherlands Centre of Expertise 
for Doctoral Education, the Netherlands. 
“Clearly written and based on solid research, this compassionate and 
practical book is a must for research developers and supervisors.”
Dr Katherine Firth, The University of Melbourne, Australia, author of How to Fix 
your Academic Writing Trouble: A Practical Guide and Your PhD Survival Guide: 
Planning, Writing and Succeeding in your Final Year.
“Supervisors and decision makers will find it exciting to discover new 
areas for guiding hopeful research candidates on their journey.”
Dr Estelle M Phillips, co-author How to Get a PhD, Former Research Tutor 
Birkbeck College, University of London, UK and Independent Educational 
Consultant
“A valuable resource for doctoral school leaders, supervisors, 
professionals and doctoral candidates alike.”
Lucas Zinner, Head of Research Services and Career Development, University of 
Vienna, Austria
THE ART OF WRITING A PHD PROPOSAL
A flying start for students and their supervisors 
in the transition from MA to PhD
Image credit: Taras Kushnir
