The PhD Writing Handbook
Research Skills
Authoring a PhD
The Foundations of Research (2nd edn)
Getting to Grips with Doctoral Research
Getting Published
The Good Supervisor (2nd edn)
PhD by Published Work
The PhD Viva
Planning Your Postgraduate Research
The Postgraduate Research Handbook (2nd edn)
The Professional Doctorate
Structuring Your Research Thesis
Teaching and Learning
Series Editor: Sally Brown
Facilitating Workshops
For the Love of Learning
Leading Dynamic Seminars
Learning, Teaching and Assessment in Higher Education
Live Online Learning
Internationalization and Diversity in Higher Education
Access to Higher Education
Learning with the Labyrinth
Masters Level Teaching, Learning and Assessment
Fostering Self Efficacy in Higher Education Students
Further titles are in preparation
The PhD Writing 
Handbook
Desmond Thomas
BLOOMSBURY ACADEMIC
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
50 Bedford Square, London, WC1B 3DP, UK
1385 Broadway, New York, NY 10018, USA
29 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin 2, Ireland
BLOOMSBURY, BLOOMSBURY ACADEMIC and the Diana logo  
are trademarks of Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
First published in 2016 by PALGRAVE
Reprinted by Bloomsbury Academic, 2022
Copyright © Desmond Thomas, 2016
Desmond Thomas has asserted his right under the Copyright,  
Designs and Patents Act, 1988, to be identified as Author of this work.
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced or  
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic or mechanical,  
including photocopying, recording, or any information storage or retrieval  
system, without prior permission in writing from the publishers. 
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc does not have any control over, or responsibility for,  
any third-party websites referred to or in this book. All internet addresses given  
in this book were correct at the time of going to press. The author and publisher  
regret any inconvenience caused if addresses have changed or sites have  
ceased to exist, but can accept no responsibility for any such changes.
A catalogue record for this book is available from the British Library.
A catalogue record for this book is available from the Library of Congress.
ISBN:    PB:  978-1-1374-9769-7 
ePDF:  978-1-1374-9770-3 
ePub:  978-1-1374-9771-0
Series: Bloomsbury Research Skills 
To find out more about our authors and books visit  
www.bloomsbury.com and sign up for our newsletters.
v
Contents
List of Illustrative Materials
viii
Acknowledgements
xi
	
Introduction
1
1	 The Stages of PhD Thesis Writing
4
The traditional model of the PhD
4
Alternative models of the PhD
7
Making a start
11
2	 Developing a Research Topic through Writing
15
Choosing a topic
15
Finding and developing a topic that is feasible
17
Finding and developing a topic that is specific and significant
22
Developing an updated rationale for the research
31
3	 Managing Research Reading
34
Reading aims
34
Problem areas associated with reading
37
Notetaking: From reading into writing
47
4	 Producing a Literature Review
55
The literature review as a process and a product
55
The purposes of a literature review
56
Alternative approaches to the literature review as product
58
Literature review problem areas
63
5	 Exploring Key Concepts
67
The importance of concept development within a research project
67
The starting point for concept exploration
69
The process of concept exploration: the next steps
72
Other ways of exploring concepts through lateral thinking
75
Exploring concepts in writing 
77
vi  Contents
   6	 Building a Structured Chapter Framework
80
Producing an overall framework
80
Types of chapters within the structural framework
88
Chapter introductions and conclusions
91
   7	 Establishing Productive Writing Routines
100
Goals, schedules and routines
100
When will you write? How will you allocate time?
102
Setting goals and targets
107
Where and how will you write?
107
Feedback on writing
110
   8	 Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently
116
Clarity and coherence
116
The nature of coherence
122
Coherence at chapter level
126
   9	 Developing Academic Style
128
Expectations of academic style
128
Expectations of difficulty
131
Classifying ‘difficult texts’
134
10	 Completing a First Draft
141
The basic writing cycle
141
Managing reader expectations
142
Drafting and redrafting
145
Monitoring progress
146
Writing and editing
150
11	 Motivating Yourself to Write
155
Writing is more than just a technical exercise
155
The nature of writer’s block
156
In which situations does writer’s block occur?
158
What are the causes of writer’s block?
162
What kind of strategies or solutions can we use for writer’s block? 165
Coping with rejection
168
12	 Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings
171
Structuring your data report
171
Reporting quantitative data
175
Reporting qualitative data
177
Drawing conclusions
181
Contents  vii
13	 Completing your PhD Thesis
185
Writing the final version
185
Oral presentations and writing
193
The viva
201
14	 Writing throughout an Academic Career
205
Appendix 1: Useful Websites
211
Appendix 2: Suggested Answers for Task 2.1
213
Appendix 3: Research Rationale Template
215
References
217
Index
222
viii
C
C Tables
1.1	 Writing at each stage of a PhD research project
6
1.2	 Additional writing tasks for professional doctorates
8
4.1	 Literature reviews across disciplines
59
7.1	 Sample weekly writing schedule
105
12.1	 Multiple block quotations from a data report
179
13.1	 Content checklist A
186
13.2	 Content checklist B
188
13.3	 Structure checklist
189
13.4	 Coherence, clarity and style checklist
190
13.5	 Proofreading and presentation checklist
192
13.6	 Oral presentation criteria checklist
194
C
C Figures
2.1	 Breaking down a research topic
25
5.1	 A concept pyramid 
71
5.2	 Degrees of separation between concepts 
76
12.1	 Use of technology in the English language classroom:  
an ­overview
176
C
C Boxes
1.1	 One researcher’s experience
9
1.2	 One researcher’s experience
11
2.1	 Stage 1 examples 
23
2.2	 Stage 2 examples 
24
2.3	 A simple way of breaking down your own research topic in detail  24
2.4	 Stage 3 examples
27
2.5	 Stage 4 examples
28
2.6	 Stage 5 examples 
29
2.7	 Examples of conditional claims
30
List of Illustrative Material
List of Illustrative Material  ix
2.8	 Examples of hedged claims
30
2.9	 Examples of unsuccessful hedging
31
3.1	 Categorization of reading texts
39
3.2	 Exploring the Links between Climate Change, Agriculture and 
Development: A briefing paper
42
3.3	 Examining assumptions that underlie a claim
45
3.4	 Typical Level 1 questions
47
3.5	 Synthesizing different source ­references
49
3.6	 Typical Level 2 questions
50
3.7	 Annotating a reading text with ­analytical comments
51
4.1	 One researcher’s experience
58
4.2	 A literature review introduction
61
5.1	 Definition of ‘cooperation’
70
5.2	 Definition of ‘altruism’
70
5.3	 Lateral thinking puzzle 1
73
5.4	 Lateral thinking puzzle 2
74
6.1	 A first draft table of contents
81
6.2	 A first draft abstract 
84
6.3	 Structural framework hierarchy
85
6.4	 Examples of thesis sections
91
6.5	 Alternative introductions to a text
93
6.6	 A positional statement
95
7.1	 Goals, schedules and routines quiz for writing
101
7.2	 A sample monthly plan for writing
102
7.3	 Problem areas related to reading
110
7.4	 Problem areas related to writing
111
8.1	 Problems of clarity 
117
9.1	 Hedging across disciplines
129
9.2	 The ‘Writer’s Diet’
131
9.3	 Simplifying a complex text
138
9.4	 A revised version of the complex text
138
10.1	 The Rev Isaac and Mrs Ann Taylor: Family, Faith, Profession
143
10.2	 Extract from a reflective writing ­journal
148
11.1	 Writer’s block occurs when … 
158
11.2  One writer’s experience
160
11.3	 When I experience writer’s block, the main causes are usually …
162
11.4	 Writer’s block strategies and ­solutions
167
11.5	 A PhD supervisor’s perspective
169
12.1	 A sample vignette	

180
12.2	 Teachers’ changing perceptions of students, students’  
parents and themselves
182 
x  List of Illustrative Material
13.1	 Oral presentations: developing content
195
13.2	 Oral presentations: structure and coherence
196
13.3	 Oral presentations: communication skills
198
13.4 	 Oral presentations: some essential tips
200
13.5 	 Preparing for the viva
203
C
C Tasks
2.1	 Evaluating sample topics
21
2.2	 Evaluating your own topic
22
2.3	 Break down your own research topic
26
2.4	 An updated research rationale
32
4.1	 Self-evaluation
66
5.1	 Unpacking concept pairs
77
6.1	 Evaluating a second-draft table of contents
97
8.1	 Comparing perceptions of coherence
126
14.1	 Self-evaluation of the PhD writing experience
209
xi
Acknowledgements
I am deeply indebted to all those who have made a contribution to this book. 
There are many PhD students at the School of Oriental and African Studies 
(SOAS) and the University of Essex who have provided me with the examples 
of their experience and have impressed me with their courage and determi-
nation in the face of adversity. Among these, I would like to make specific 
mention of the following who I have quoted at various points in the book: 
Wafaa Alfares, Claudia Barrios Alvarez, Georgina Bailey, Evgenia Karetsa, 
Britanny Kuhn, Andrea Gonzalez Pena, Sujay Prabhat, Melissa Shales, David 
Sykes. 
I am also greatly indebted to my colleague John Trzeciak of the School of 
Oriental and African Studies for his contribution to Chapter 9, much of which 
is based on an unpublished article that we wrote together a few years ago. 
I would like to thank Mehmet Izbudak, co-teacher of the ‘Core Chapter 
Writing Course’ for PhD students that began in 2004 at SOAS and through 
which many of the ideas contained in this book were first developed. Thanks 
also to Professor Nadje Al-Ali for giving permission to include the quotation 
in Chapter 11. 
Thanks are due to Richard Lamboll and Valerie Nelson (University of 
Greenwich) who kindly gave me permission to use an extract from their 2012 
‘Briefing Paper: Climate Learning for African Agriculture’ at http://www.
erails.net/FARA/climate-learning. I am similarly indebted to Professor Peter 
Patrick (University of Essex) for agreeing to the inclusion of an extract from 
his 1998 paper, ‘Caribbean Creoles and the Speech Community’, published 
by the Society for Caribbean Linguistics, St. Lucia. 
I would also like to give thanks to Dr Wendy Archer, my co-teacher for 
many years, who helped design and deliver a year-long ‘PhD thesis writing 
Course’ that has provided ongoing support to many PhD student writers at 
the University of Essex.
Finally, on a more personal level, there are a number of people who 
I  would like to single out for special praise. First, my wife, Liz Austin, for 
all of her help and encouragement in every aspect of this work. Second, my 
father-in-law Dennis Austin for his kind words of wisdom. And third, my 
daughter Adriana Thomas, who is currently engaged in the kind of struggles 
xii  Acknowledgements
described in this book as she makes steady progress in her own PhD studies 
in the Psychology Department at the University of Auckland. 
I cannot finish without adding some thoughts on my own experience of 
PhD thesis writing in the 1990s. In the absence of a guiding handbook such 
as this one, I turned to my supervisor every time I had a problem related to 
writing or reading and in particular when I felt I had reached a dead end. I am 
indebted to Professor Cathie Wallace (University College London, Institute of 
Education) for all of her wisdom and her clear understanding of the difficul-
ties that I was facing. Without skilled supervisory input, the task of producing 
a text that does justice to your research becomes that much harder. 
I consider myself very fortunate to have been supported by so many 
people. Thanks to all of you. This book is dedicated to you.
1
Introduction
A PhD research project presents two types of challenges. The first relates to 
the project itself, the type of research that is being carried out, its content 
and its methodology. For these, there are many potential sources of support – 
individual supervisors, supervisory panels, discipline-related communities 
and an ever-expanding range of courses and books that offer training and 
advice on research design, data collection and data analysis. 
The other set of challenges relates to the ability to produce a written PhD 
thesis that will do justice to the quality of your research, enabling readers to 
understand and appreciate the development of your thinking. This ability will 
also sustain you throughout a future career in academia, when writing will 
be the main means of communication with other members of disciplinary 
and cross-disciplinary communities. It is evident that developing writing 
skills to the required level will be an important goal for all PhD researchers. 
However, there is a tendency for writing support to be made available only 
through occasional self-contained workshops while the need for ongoing 
support is often underestimated or even ignored. 
There are several possible reasons for the relative lack of attention to 
writing which can characterize research training programmes in higher 
education institutions. One is the fact that many PhD supervisors and 
research skills trainers see their responsibilities as limited to giving guidance 
on content and methods. This is a great pity, as most supervisors and train-
ers tend to be experienced and skilled writers within their specialist fields. 
It seems that expertise in writing is rarely passed on from the experienced 
researcher to the less experienced in an explicit way. 
Another reason for the lack of writing support may be an underlying 
belief that writing is a simple and inherently logical process, which involves 
working out and clarifying ideas before you write them down. From this 
perspective, there is a designated order of events where writing comes 
after reading, collecting data and analysing data as the final stage of PhD 
research. From this same perspective, writing does not need to be taught. 
Instead, it is believed that the skills involved can be acquired over a period 
of time. I have known many cases where PhD researchers were forbidden 
2  Introduction
to write by their supervisors until their third or fourth year of study on the 
grounds that they might not be ready. 
For inexperienced research writers, acquiring the range of skills that they 
need can present a substantial challenge. The realization that writing a first 
draft can be a complex and messy process may come very gradually. The 
stereotype of the inspired writer spontaneously producing a brilliantly clear 
and coherent text can persist despite strong evidence to suggest that this 
view of writing rarely matches the reality. 
One way of challenging the stereotype is to consider the role of writing 
and its importance at every stage of the research process. According to 
Wolcott (1990), writing is not really a product of thinking but is arguably a 
form of thinking in itself. Putting ideas down on paper or on a screen can 
be an excellent way of clarifying key issues, helping the writer to see argu-
ments and counterarguments more clearly or examine the strength of the 
evidence presented to support a particular point that is being made. From 
this perspective, some form of writing needs to take place even during the 
very early stages of research, where writing contributes to thinking and 
helping to make reading more focused. 
This handbook seeks to convince you that such an approach to writing 
can provide a useful basis for developing the skills that you will need to 
communicate with your intended readers. Some form of writing is present 
at every stage of the PhD research cycle: this has always been the case and 
perhaps always will be. 
The handbook is divided into sections which follow the process of PhD 
thesis writing from the initial research proposal up until the final viva. 
Chapter 1 considers different models of the PhD and issues related to 
reading and writing that need to be addressed at the start of PhD research, 
while Chapter 2 considers ways of developing a suitable research topic 
through writing. 
Chapters 3, 4 and 5 look at various aspects of reading in order to write: the 
management of the reading process, issues related to compiling a literature 
review and the exploration of key concepts. 
Chapter 6 considers ways of building a structured chapter framework for 
the thesis, while Chapter 7 focuses on the importance of establishing produc-
tive writing routines which also include receiving and responding to feed-
back from various sources. 
Chapters 8, 9 and 10 break down the process of first draft writing, examin-
ing in turn issues related to clarity and coherence at sentence, paragraph and 
chapter level, academic style conventions and the drafting and redrafting of 
text. 
Introduction  3
Chapter 11 discusses some effective ways of achieving self-motivation 
and self-discipline in writing, having considered the causes and conse-
quences of writer’s block.
Chapters 12 and 13 consider the later stages of thesis writing, including 
the reporting and analysing of data. Practical guidelines are provided for the 
effective and systematic editing of written text, the development of oral pres-
entation skills and preparation for the viva. 
Finally, Chapter 14 considers ways in which writing skills can be devel-
oped throughout an academic career. 
4
1 The Stages of PhD  
Thesis Writing
This chapter
• 
maps out the different stages of PhD research writing, matching 
specific writing tasks with the research process for the ‘traditional’ 
model of the PhD
• 
compares alternative models such as professional doctorates and 
‘creative PhDs’ and examines the implications for writing in each case
• 
considers the role of the initial research proposal and some of the 
concerns related to starting writing 
C
C The traditional model of the PhD
The standard or ‘traditional’ model of the PhD can be considered a kind of 
academic apprenticeship that emphasizes the production of a written text 
(a thesis), closely supervised by a specialist in a particular field. In recent 
years, the emphasis has shifted slightly to take into account the importance 
of the learning process itself and the acquisition and further development of 
a range of skills that can be used later in a career. 
The stages for the traditional model can be described as below. Note, however, 
that the sequence will tend to be cyclical rather than linear. For example, review-
ing relevant literature will take place in parallel with most of the other activities. 
Similarly, the initial proposal will be revisited and revised later on. 
Developing a research topic and the initial research proposal
This will involve a mix of the following: 
• 
identifying a topic area and clarifying overall aims
• 
applying feasibility criteria to the area of interest
• 
breaking down the topic area to give it a clearer focus
The Stages of PhD Thesis Writing   5
• 
turning this focus into research questions
• 
generating hypotheses from questions and vice versa (for some research 
projects)
• 
identifying and justifying suitable research methods
• 
building a written rationale around all of the above 
Reviewing relevant literature
Reading takes place both before and after the gradual refinement of the 
research topic. However, once the research questions have been clearly 
defined, reading can be less exploratory and more focused. Keeping mean-
ingful records of what you have read and the development of your thinking 
is achieved through notetaking. This means not only summarizing the ideas 
of other writers but also responding to them via analytical notes. It will be 
argued that this type of writing is crucial in the early stages of PhD research, 
since later on the writer will need to reconnect to his/her way of thinking 
sometimes after a long absence. 
Producing a framework for your thesis
Certain unstated expectations of PhD research writing are common to most 
academic communities. First, there is a requirement to guide the reader 
through the structure of the thesis itself. The writer is responsible for laying 
out and developing in a logical fashion the case that is being made, and it is 
not just up to the reader to make the effort to understand the essence of the 
argumentation and to plot its development. 
Writing draft chapters: general principles and potential problem 
areas
This will involve a mix of the following: 
• 
identifying readership
• 
achieving clarity while taking into account style considerations
• 
achieving coherence: developing and sustaining arguments throughout 
a chapter
• 
effective referencing and the provision of substantial evidence to support 
arguments
• 
managing the size of the text as it grows
• 
getting your own position across and making your voice heard
• 
motivating and disciplining yourself to write 
Editing and completing your work
First draft writing and first draft editing will need to be seen as fundamen-
tally different processes. The editing stage of PhD writing has its own set of 
6  The PhD Writing Handbook
requirements and specific skill areas. Checklists for editing and for finalizing 
the text of your PhD thesis can play an important role in achieving success. 
At each of these stages, writing is present in one form or another. 
Table 1.1 gives some examples of typical writing tasks, though they will vary 
in accordance with the nature of the project. Note that alternative models of 
the PhD discussed in later sections of this chapter will have different require-
ments. Wherever this is the case, differences will be clearly highlighted 
throughout this book. 
Table 1.1 Writing at each stage of a PhD research project
Stage of PhD 
­research project
Possible writing tasks
1. 
Developing the 
research topic 
• The initial research proposal
• An updated written research rationale or revised 
research proposal
• A written application for ethical approval of a 
research project
• Introduction letters and participant consent forms
2. 
Reviewing relevant 
literature
• Summarizing and paraphrasing of key texts
• Analytic notetaking in response to key reading 
texts
• Analytic memos or summaries based on the notes
• Comparative memos or summaries combining 
notes from several texts
• Annotated bibliographies
3. 
Producing a litera-
ture review
• Critical reviews of journal articles based on 
­research findings
• Literature review draft structure
• Exploration and definition of key concepts relevant 
to the research project
4. 
Producing a frame-
work for the thesis
• A table of contents and an abstract
• A monthly plan
5.
Writing draft 
­chapters
• Chapter overviews
• Chapter introductory sections
• A reflective writing journal
• Reporting of data
• Data analysis
6.
Editing chapters
• Editing for content
• Editing for structure
• Editing for clarity and coherence
• Polishing and proofreading
The Stages of PhD Thesis Writing   7
Although some of the tasks included in this table may not seem 
­self-explanatory at this point, each will be considered in greater detail in 
later chapters of this book. The aim of the overview is to provide an indi-
cation of the range of possible writing opportunities at every stage of the 
research process, not just in the ‘writing-up’ phase of a PhD. 
C
C Alternative models of the PhD
‘New Route’ PhDs
Many universities now offer ‘new route’ PhDs as a variant to the traditional 
model. The aim is to provide a structured programme of formal training to 
feed into the research project. Students following this route will normally be 
asked to complete a number of content-related modules along with training 
in discipline-specific research methods. In some cases, exams will need to be 
taken and passed in order to be able to upgrade to full PhD level. 
The taught element of any ‘new route’ PhD tends to be front-loaded, with 
the taught programme of study in the first two years of a four-year cycle. 
At the time of writing, just over 30 universities in the UK offer this option. 
However, the number is likely to expand as a more structured research-
degree programme appeals to inexperienced researchers who favour a more 
guided approach to PhD study; this in turn may also provide a wider range of 
opportunities for writing practice. 
The writing requirements for this type of PhD tend not to vary greatly 
from those of the traditional model. For further details see http://www.
newroutephd.ac.uk/. 
Professional doctorates
In the last 20 to 30 years, professional doctorates have provided a growing 
number of practitioners in a variety of fields with the opportunity to upgrade 
their knowledge and skills. Qualifications such as the EngD (doctorate in 
engineering) or EdD (doctorate in education) are now widely available as an 
alternative qualification to the PhD. Meanwhile, fields including medicine, 
dentistry and psychology offer their own equivalents often linked to registra-
tion at a specific level within the profession. 
Most professional doctorates include a significant taught or directed 
study element, which is formally assessed and can involve the accumulation 
of points or credits up to a required total. In addition, an original piece of 
research is presented as a doctoral level thesis. The research topic usually 
relates to an aspect or aspects of professional practice and can be chosen by 
8  The PhD Writing Handbook
the researcher, the supervisor or a sponsor. In the latter case, the research is 
often carried out within a sponsoring institution. 
In this type of doctoral programme there are implications for writing 
which will need to be carefully considered via the following questions: 
• 
Does the directed study element require the production of a portfolio of 
work in addition to the thesis itself?
• 
Will the thesis tend to be shorter than in the traditional model? How 
much shorter?
• 
How will the two elements be weighted? In some cases, could the impor-
tance of the portfolio work outweigh the importance of the thesis?
• 
Can already published work be included in the portfolio? 
Unfortunately, there appear to be no straightforward answers to such ques-
tions. Professional doctorates appear to vary greatly in their requirements 
across institutions and across disciplines. However, taking into account the 
importance of reflection on professional practice in such programmes, it is 
advisable to add some extra writing tasks to the list of examples provided 
for the traditional PhD as detailed in the table below. See also Fulton, Kuit, 
Sanders and Smith (2013) for further advice in this area. 
Table 1.2 Additional writing tasks for professional doctorates
Stage of research project
Writing tasks
1. 
Developing the research 
topic 
Rationale for the research topic: how it 
­relates to issues arising within your practice 
at a particular point in your career
2. 
Writing draft chapters
Personal reflections gained from the research 
process that are linked to aspects of practice
‘Creative’ PhDs
Creative PhDs are associated with certain disciplinary areas such as music, 
film or theatre studies. They combine an original piece of work such as 
a musical composition, a play or a short novel with an accompanying 
academic analysis of the creative process, usually referred to as a ‘commen-
tary’. Creative PhDs and professional doctorates appear to be similar in 
some respects, though there is less emphasis here on structured, assessed 
work. 
The Stages of PhD Thesis Writing   9
Box 1.1 gives the reflections of an experienced travel writer, who decided 
to follow this route towards a PhD. Her task was to produce an original piece 
of travel writing in the form of a short novel, together with a 40,000-word 
commentary on the creative writing process: 
Box 1.1. One researcher’s experience
On the whole, I think it’s a very positive experience. You get access to 
research, sensible and balanced feedback and a framework to ensure 
that you keep writing (always helpful). Both supervisors and other 
students are key. However, you are also surrounded by other writers 
and would-be writers, all of whom have their own, different ideas and 
will offer masses of helpful suggestions based on what they would do. 
You will also be reading around your topic. You need to learn and adapt 
without simply swaying in the breeze towards whichever voice is shout-
ing loudest today. This means keeping a very clear sense of your own 
identity, vision and voice, and that can be hard to maintain and argue. 
For me, coming from a non-academic background, there was also a 
concern that my writing would be considered too frivolous and that in 
trying to add enough gravitas to satisfy the academics, I would kill the 
common touch and make my work unsaleable. Finding that fine balance 
of depth and readability remains one of my key concerns. 
The additional writing tasks involving personal reflections suggested for 
professional doctorate researchers are likely to be even more applicable 
for ‘Creative’ PhDs of this type. An additional problem area which this 
researcher identifies is the need to communicate in two very distinct styles 
of writing – one that is appropriate for a travel novel and another which will 
meet the expectations of an academic readership. Research projects of this 
type may involve a delicate balancing act to satisfy both types of reader. 
PhDs ‘by publication’ or ‘by papers’
An important variant on the traditional model is the PhD ‘by publication’ or 
‘by papers’. The original aim of this approach appears to have been to allow 
a portfolio of already published work to be submitted along with an accom-
panying piece of analysis that ‘typically, critically appraises the submitted 
works, explains how they fit together, accounts for and supports their chosen 
methodologies, and highlights the significant and original contribution to 
scholarship’ (Willis and Cowton, 2011). 
10  The PhD Writing Handbook
However, the notion of a ‘Publications PhD’ seems to have been merged into 
a more recent variant – the ‘PhD by papers’ consisting of several pieces of hith-
erto unpublished work linked together by a common theme. It is therefore possi-
ble for researchers who have little or no published work to follow this route. In 
some cases it is even presented as a less arduous and more focused option. 
The fact that a PhD by papers might be presented as an easier option 
than the traditional model is a cause for concern. PhD supervisors may feel 
that the benefits will outweigh the drawbacks, taking into consideration 
the need to have work published in a highly competitive academic environ-
ment. However, choosing the ‘by papers’ model may have some or all of the 
following consequences: 
• 
a requirement to conduct separate literature reviews for each of the 
papers included in the thesis
• 
a requirement to develop and describe separate methodologies for each 
research paper
• 
the near inevitability of having to present early attempts at conducting 
research alongside later, more sophisticated attempts. In this scenario, 
the researcher will usually develop and present a different paper for each 
year of the research process
• 
the difficulty of achieving overall coherence between so many different 
texts
• 
a lack of definition relating to the nature of the analytic commentary that 
aims to bind the thesis together
• 
the amount of time and effort that can be spent submitting work for 
publication, and in many cases having to cope with multiple rejections 
Despite all of these potential difficulties, many inexperienced researchers 
find this model of PhD to be very productive. A collection of publishable 
papers can be highly advantageous for anyone starting an academic career. 
Other arguments in favour of this model include the following:
• 
As the papers are peer reviewed, you are able to receive more extensive 
feedback than is often the case during the production of a traditional PhD 
thesis.
• 
Successful publication will give a boost to your self-confidence during 
the final stages of your research project.
• 
Successful publication almost acts as a guarantee that you have already 
reached the required standard.
• 
In some projects of this type, there are also possibilities for fruitful 
co-authorship initiatives without risking a loss of overall control.
The Stages of PhD Thesis Writing   11
C
C Making a start
The initial research proposal
According to one PhD thesis writer, ‘When I look at my first proposal, I just 
laugh. There were about ten PhDs in it. But it still represents a starting point.’
Your very first proposal is often unrealistic and may even constitute your 
first attempt at writing after a long gap. An initial proposal can be deliber-
ately broad and vaguely worded, because you may be trying to find the right 
person to supervise your work and do not want to close down your options. 
However, an initial proposal is still an important document because it is the 
first point of contact between a researcher and the academic department 
that will support and guide the research project. In addition, it provides 
the first opportunity for many PhD researchers to clarify thinking through 
writing. During the early stages of PhD research, it will be reconsidered and 
revised until it is transformed into a more focused rationale that will act as a 
point of reference throughout your project. 
Different institutions will offer their own templates for completing an initial 
proposal. You will normally be required to consider each of the ­following: 
• 
the broad topic area that you would like to research
• 
the reasons for choosing this topic and its significance
• 
research aims and questions
• 
research methodology
To obtain a balanced view of the advantages and disadvantages of this 
model, it is useful to consider the experiences of other researchers: 
Box 1.2. One researcher’s experience
My supervisor told me that the best option is the paper-based PhD. I’m 
still not quite certain whether it is the best. I have to do three papers 
which all need to be linked. I will need to do three different data sets. 
None of the papers have been published yet. It’s the same for other 
students in my department. He never suggested that I should include 
my two papers that have already been published in a related area. 
I need to write two new papers alone and one that is co-authored. That’s 
really good because you can do something with your supervisor or with 
another person – in my case I am working with another person who 
helped me with the data. 
12  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
key references
• 
your intended research plan 
In arts, humanities and social science areas, such a proposal will act as a 
starting point for your research. In the natural sciences, this may also be 
the case: however, there will also be situations in which this format is not 
applicable – for instance, if you are applying to join an existing project led by 
a principal investigator. 
Whatever the circumstances, your initial proposal serves two important 
functions, which can be summarized as follows: 
1.	 It helps you to develop your ideas relating to a chosen topic in a structured 
way.
	
Your first piece of writing also represents your earliest attempt to take 
control of your topic area and develop it further. It will be an important 
document to look back on much later in your research and will act as a 
reference point to show you how far you have progressed.
2.	 It demonstrates to your readers your ability to express your ideas clearly, 
concisely and coherently.
	
An initial proposal is rather like an application to become a member of 
an academic community, where, it is hoped, you will become a respected 
researcher and colleague. The impression that you make on your readers 
must therefore be carefully considered. 
Some initial concerns 
Starting PhD research can sometimes be an overwhelming experience in 
which much new information needs to be absorbed, new connections need 
to be established and expectations need to be carefully adjusted to suit new 
circumstances. It is important to realize that you are not alone and that 
others who lack research experience will share your concerns. Here is a 
selection of comments offered by a group of PhD research students from a 
range of disciplines at the very beginning of their journey: 
Which aspects of a research project concern you most? 
• 
knowing where to start
• 
putting together a realistic plan that works for me in the timeframe
• 
not becoming too obsessed and letting the PhD take over my life
• 
that I won’t have a critical standpoint and won’t make an original contri-
bution to the field
• 
time management
The Stages of PhD Thesis Writing   13
• 
identifying the right research question which I can answer in the time-
scale available
• 
how to make the best use of my supervisor and how to expand my 
network to gain insights from others
• 
presenting my work at conferences
• 
missing the panoramic view in an attempt to complete all of the tasks 
required of me
• 
that everyone will know I am a fraud and shouldn’t be here 
In this book, we will address such general concerns, as well as those which 
are more directly related to reading and writing, illustrated through the 
examples below: 
Which aspects of research reading and writing concern you most? 
• 
There is no flow in my writing
• 
I easily feel anxious and overwhelmed by important writing tasks, 
meaning that I have a tendency to procrastinate dangerously
• 
I need to learn to read systematically and improve my ability to read 
effectively
• 
My approach to reading and writing is too labour-intensive and therefore 
unsustainable. I need strategies for reading that do not involve reading 
every word of a book and making detailed notes
• 
The literature review is very stressful
• 
I am not producing enough written text due to writer’s block, panic or 
anxiety
• 
Since I am not a native English speaker, it worries me a lot that my 
language will affect the quality of my thesis
• 
Have I done enough reading and writing? Or do I need to do more? How 
will I know? 
1.	 Start some form of writing as early as possible.
2.	Draw up a list of writing tasks that will suit the type of PhD that you are 
engaged in.
3.	Use even simple writing tasks to focus your discussion with your super-
visor and other intended readers.
4.	Write down a list of your expectations at the very beginning of 
the research writing process. It is essential that you compare your 
Action Points
14  The PhD Writing Handbook
­expectations with those of your intended readers. Find answers to ques-
tions such as, ‘How much writing am I expected to produce in the first 
six months of my research project?’
5.	Write down a list of your general concerns and those specifically related 
to research reading and writing. Refer to the sample lists above. Try 
to categorize these problem areas. Which of them must be discussed 
immediately and which of them can wait? Talk to peers to compare 
views.
6.	Prepare an initial research proposal (even if this is not required) by 
following a recommended template. Revise and develop it regularly.
15
2 Developing a Research 
Topic through Writing
This chapter
• 
considers three basic criteria sets for choosing a suitable research 
topic
• 
examines ways of breaking down a research topic through writing
• 
explores the relationship between topic development and the 
­successful completion of writing tasks, such as the production of an 
updated research rationale 
  Choosing a topic
There are many possible reasons for the initial choice of a research topic 
at PhD level. Sometimes the choice may be limited by practical constraints 
such as supervisor availability. For some, the choice is determined by the 
supervisor’s own interests or by financial incentives such as scholarships or 
study grants. In joint research projects with a designated principal investiga-
tor, individual choice may appear to be limited. But when choice is a real 
option, the freedom to choose can sometimes become problematic and even 
burdensome – in particular for those who have spent many years of their 
lives responding to questions that have been posed by others. 
How do researchers make their initial choice of topic and justify this 
choice? Answers to this question can be surprisingly varied and include the 
following, where the supervisor’s role and influence is a deciding factor: 
• 
My supervisor suggested some topics and I chose one (computer science).
• 
My supervisor chose this topic for me (computer science).
16  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
I am part of a funded project on connections between food production, 
energy security and climate change. The PhD topic was formulated for me, 
although it is fairly free for me to interpret (sociology).
• 
This is the research area of my supervisor. It was also a completely new 
topic for me and I wanted to learn something new (economics).
• 
I chose my supervisor based on a common interest in railways. For the 
specific topic, I am following my supervisor’s advice (computer science). 
Sometimes the reasons are more personal, as in these examples: 
• 
a question arising from my experience (history)
• 
expanding from my previous research (computer science)
• 
something that grew out of my MA thesis (art history)
• 
based on a personal work experience (business studies)
• 
this topic is a challenge to classic theories whose assumptions I do not like 
(business studies)
• 
I am not satisfied by the recent literature (history)
• 
there are several blind spots in the historical literature on mandate Palestine 
(history) 
The initial identification of a topic or topic area is the starting point for a 
series of activities in which the overall aims of the project and its precise 
focus are gradually explored, defined and specified through writing. There 
are, unfortunately, no scientific studies that demonstrate beyond any doubt 
a clear link between the quality of decision making at this stage and subse-
quent success. However, there is certainly evidence to suggest that the use 
of effective strategies in the initial phase of developing the research topic 
can make a real difference in the long run. See, for example, the views of 
Blaxter, Hughes and Tight (2001); Brewer (2007); or Wolcott (1990) in this 
respect. 
It is useful to break down the process of topic development into a series of 
questions that all researchers will need to address:
i.	
What criteria need to be taken into consideration when choosing and 
refining a PhD research topic?
ii.	 How can a research topic be developed so that its aims and focus are 
clear?
iii.	 How can suitable research questions and claims be generated?
iv.	 How important is a written rationale or revised proposal at this stage?
v.	 How can a suitable revised rationale for the research be developed?
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  17
These questions will be considered and possible answers explored in the 
remaining sections of this chapter. In response to the first question, three 
basic criteria sets for choosing and developing a suitable research topic will 
be considered:
• 
feasibility (is the topic manageable?)
• 
specificity (is it clearly defined?)
• 
significance (does it contain sufficient elements of originality and is it of 
interest to a particular community of readers?) 
  Finding and developing a topic that is feasible
The initial choice of research topic may often seem to be perfectly reason-
able, but a closer examination can reveal its flaws. Feasibility criteria can 
help to determine whether it should remain as an idea on paper or whether it 
can be put into practice. Although the consideration of feasibility criteria is a 
relatively straightforward task, there are a still a number of issues to consider 
here. Clearly, some will have greater prominence than others depending on 
the type of project being undertaken and the context of the research. It will 
be seen that some of the criteria are directly linked to specific writing tasks; 
others less so.
The size or scope of the study proposed
This is where feasibility links closely with specificity. An initial choice of 
topic may be over-ambitious for many reasons. In itself, this is not entirely 
disadvantageous, since it is important not to narrow the range of choices 
too soon. However, there comes a point where a lack of focus can make the 
project unmanageable. 
As Wolcott (1990) and other writers suggest, writing plays an important 
role in clarifying thinking. It could be argued that nowhere is this more perti-
nent than at this initial stage of the research process. A linear approach to 
topic selection and development can result in a dead end, whereas explor-
ing lateral links through a written mapping exercise can often be seen to be 
more productive. An example of how this might work is presented later in 
this chapter. 
The amount of time and other resources available
Your research project can succeed only if the resources that it needs are 
freely available. The amount of time involved is clearly a key factor in the 
planning of any research project. In the UK context, this has become even 
18  The PhD Writing Handbook
more important in recent years as completion dates have been strictly 
enforced. Restricted financial or technical resources can also determine 
project feasibility. 
The range of technical skills needed to carry out the study
If, for example, the success of a project depends on your ability to master 
a new language or achieve a high level of technical competence in the use 
of sophisticated equipment, the extra burden that this adds to the workload 
may render the whole project unfeasible. 
Access and availability of data and information
If the research project depends for its success on important data that is 
locked away, it is obviously necessary to know in advance that the key will 
be made available. Data can become unavailable in other ways as well, for 
example if the services of a highly skilled translator with knowledge of a 
particular subject area is required. Special visas or letters of introduction may 
also determine whether access is granted to sensitive data to be collected as 
part of a fieldwork exercise. One essential writing task at this stage may well 
be the production of a suitably worded letter outlining the aims and benefits 
of the research and requesting such access. 
The level of risk (of various kinds) attached to the project
Risks can be physical, psychological, financial or reputational. You, partici-
pants in your research or the participating institutions could be at risk. 
Certain topics can seem to lend themselves to particular kinds of risk. For 
example, investigations into ‘corrupt practices’ may endanger research 
participants who give honest opinions affecting the reputations of those seen 
to be involved. Such research needs to be carefully considered to ensure that 
the benefits clearly outweigh the risks, and a realistic assessment needs to 
be made of the levels of risk. Risk assessment and ethical considerations 
(see below) are often inextricably linked. 
The website of the UK Social Research Association offers a code of 
practice to protect the safety of social researchers. This can be found in 
Appendix 1. 
Theoretical basis for the research
A research project may not be feasible if it seeks to fill a perceived gap in 
knowledge that is seen by other researchers in the field to be difficult to 
address. Similarly, a project is less likely to be feasible (at least within the 
constraints of PhD research) if there are no existing theoretical or conceptual 
frameworks that can help make sense of underlying issues. Another reason 
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  19
for rejecting a project on feasibility grounds would be if it is based on a claim 
or series of claims for which there is little supporting evidence. Finally, a 
project that seeks to demonstrate a strong association between two appar-
ently unrelated concepts could be difficult to justify. 
Unsurprisingly, writing has an important role in determining feasibility 
in these areas. To justify conducting research in an area where there is an 
apparent gap, a strong rationale would be required to demonstrate the feasi-
bility and also the significance of the project. To justify claims which appear 
to lack supporting evidence, a short literature review would probably need 
to be presented. To demonstrate the validity of an association of ideas which 
may seem counterintuitive to other researchers in the field, a preliminary 
research paper might even be required. 
Whether key terms can be clearly defined or not
This may seem an unlikely reason for a research topic to be rejected. 
However, wherever key terminology resists definition, there is often a good 
reason. The role of writing here is clear: the concepts and their labels will 
need thorough exploration leading to definitions which can be considered 
acceptable within the context of the research. 
Whether the phenomena being explored are recent or subject 
to rapid change
If the aim of your research is to attempt to analyse very recent events or 
phenomena that are in the process of rapid change, there are potential 
dangers which need to be carefully considered. If, for instance, a project is 
likely to produce data that will be superseded by the time of publication, such 
a consideration may lead to its rejection on feasibility grounds. 
Whether the researcher is able to maintain a suitable distance
For very recent events, there is the added problem of achieving distance 
between an unfolding narrative and your own position. Locating the 
research within a fixed period in the recent past is one means of address-
ing this, with the intervening time period separating the two. Even if 
such ‘distancing strategies’ are adopted, the close involvement of the 
researcher in any project needs to be carefully considered, particularly if 
there is a strong emotional involvement in some of the issues involved. If 
the research involves advocacy of a particular perspective that is shared 
by the researcher, this needs to be made explicit. But if objectivity rather 
than subjectivity and professional distance rather than close involvement 
are the aims, the feasibility of carrying out the project needs to be carefully 
considered. 
20  The PhD Writing Handbook
There are significant implications for writing in this area. According to 
Grbich (2007: 10), in certain types of research projects (for example, those 
which promote a postmodernist approach) ‘reflexive subjectivity replaces 
objectivity’. She adds: ‘Self-reflexivity involves a heightened awareness of 
the self in the process of knowledge creation, a clarification of how one’s 
beliefs have been socially constructed and how these values are impacting 
on interaction, data collection and data analysis in the research setting’. This 
awareness of your own values and their impact would need to be carefully 
explored in one of the introductory chapters of the thesis itself. 
Ethical considerations
The ethics of research is clearly an area of the greatest importance and one 
which will need to be explored within the context of each individual research 
project and the related disciplinary areas. Brewer (2007: 71–2) provides a useful 
explanation of the main ethical issues to be considered within the context of 
research feasibility, which are summarized below. You will need to ensure that:
• 
physical, mental, social or environmental damage of any form does not 
result from the research. Vulnerable people need to be suitably protected. 
This could include ‘the elderly, children, the mentally ill, the physically 
handicapped or other disadvantaged people’
• 
participants are informed of the true purpose of the research
• 
participants give their consent to take part willingly and freely
• 
anonymity and confidentiality must be observed if offered to participants
• 
the reputation of participating institutions will not be damaged by the 
research 
Some of the items on Brewer’s list, summarized above, do not seem to be 
at all contentious. The kind of experiments conducted by psychologists 40 
or 50 years ago in which some degree of harm to participants was regarded 
as a tolerable by-product would no longer be accepted by most research 
communities. For an illustration of how attitudes have changed, see the 
replicated experiment reported by Burger (2009). 
Other points, however, do raise some interesting questions. An example is 
the requirement not to cause reputational damage to participant institutions. 
Does this mean that any criticism of such an institution should cause the 
project to be considered unfeasible on ethical grounds? There is an apparent 
contradiction here as research which deliberately sets out to avoid the less 
attractive characteristics of a sponsoring institution could also quite arguably 
be considered unethical. Clearly, a balance needs to be achieved between the 
need to present negative aspects along with positive and the responsibility 
to prevent unwarranted damage to individuals’ or institutions’ reputations. 
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  21
Brewer’s summarized list of points might seem to be incomplete to many 
readers. The following ethical considerations affecting feasibility could justi-
fiably be added: 
• 
constraints imposed by third parties (for example, health and safety 
regulations)
• 
conflicts of interest (for example, with research sponsors)
• 
manipulation of facts and data (for example, selective presentation of 
­findings) 
For a useful set of guidelines specific to ‘proper scientific conduct in 
research’, see Appendix 1. 
An important writing task that will precede data collection is the produc-
tion of a written proposal to be submitted in order to gain ethical approval 
for the research project. This is generally a requirement of higher education 
institutions across all subject areas. The ethical approval application will 
usually require the following: a short written rationale for the project; an 
account of how data collection will take place; and a justification for the 
methods of collection and analysis that will be used. 
Task 2.1 shows possible research topics that have been formulated as 
research questions. Clearly, many of them would not be feasible as they 
are presented here. Which ones would need to be summarily rejected? On 
what grounds? Some of the topics, however, might contain the potential for 
a possible PhD research project. Could any of them be modified so that they 
would be feasible? What changes would need to be made and why? 
Task 2.1: Evaluating sample topics
Topic lists are based on research students’ initial expressions of interest, 
the majority at PhD level. Suggested answers to the questions above are 
provided in Appendix 2. 
1.	 What are the most successful marketing strategies for airline ­companies?
2.	 What is the difference between management styles in Japan, the UK 
and the USA?
3.	 What are the most effective strategies for dealing with the latest 
­generation of computer viruses?
4.	 Is tourism beneficial or harmful to less developed countries?
5.	 What are the long-term effects of sleep deprivation?
6.	 What impact is the land reform policy in Zimbabwe having on the 
­local economy?
7.	 What impact will global warming have on the Maldive Islands?
8.	 What is the best way to improve the pronunciation of students learn-
ing English as a foreign language?
9.	 Do high levels of creativity lead to psychological disturbance? 
22  The PhD Writing Handbook
  Finding and developing a topic that is specific and 
significant
When beginning a new project, many researchers find that their initial choice 
of topic is far too broad and lacks specificity. This is not necessarily a disad-
vantage at the very start, since specificity implies a commitment to a particu-
lar direction for the research. In other words, one avenue is chosen and a 
decision is made to leave other possible avenues unexplored. Clearly, there 
are great dangers in making such choices too soon. 
A greater danger, however, lies in maintaining a lack of specificity. In the 
early stages of a PhD research project, you will need to think about how to 
work on the topic area so that it begins to resemble the kind of title that you 
would be happy to see on the cover page of the finished text. An example of 
an unspecified topic could be the following: 
‘Educational Change in Post-Communist Societies’
An initial breakdown of this topic area might lead in one or more of these 
directions: 
A particular country: 	
Bulgaria
A specific period of time:	
1989–2000
A particular field of education: 	
Secondary schools
A particular group of people: 	
Secondary school teachers
Task 2.2: Evaluating your own topic
How could the feasibility of your own proposed research topic be 
­evaluated? Comment on the following, as far as you are able: 
a)	 the size or scope of the study proposed
b)	 the amount of time and other resources available
c)	 the range of technical skills needed to carry out the study
d)	 access and availability of data and information
e)	 the level of risk (of various kinds) attached to the project
f)	 whether the project has an adequate theory base and whether implied 
claims or connections can be sustained
g)	 whether key terms can be clearly defined or not
h)	 whether the phenomena being explored are recent or subject to rapid 
change
i)	 whether you are able to maintain a suitable distance from the 
object(s) of research
j)	 ethical considerations 
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  23
Working in linear fashion in any of these directions means that we do not 
concentrate on any of the others. We can also miss interesting lateral links 
in the process (see below). However, the starting point for developing a 
potential topic might still be linear, making use of existing models for topic 
development. 
Booth, Colomb and Williams (1995: 49–51) propose an interesting and 
innovative structured process for breaking down a research topic, as well 
as developing different levels of research questions and, ultimately, the 
research thesis or ‘main claim’. The stages that follow are mostly based 
on their original model, using different stage labels and with illustrative 
examples added. However, extra stages have been added to their structure 
to provide a more complete picture of how a research topic might be fully 
developed and transformed into a draft title. 
Stage 1: Defining the broad topic area
At this stage, you will need to find appropriate ways of completing this type 
of sentence: 
‘I am studying …’ ‘I am interested in exploring …’ 
Box 2.1. Stage 1 examples 
1.	I am studying Nepal’s political culture and the idea of Hindu kingship 
	
This topic might be a good starting point for a piece of research, but it 
is one which clearly needs to become more focused.
2.	I am interested in exploring the political agendas of various European 
governments in the mid nineteenth century and the development of 
the transport system in Brazil. 
	
This topic already has a narrower focus, but there is still room for 
further refinements and modifications. Which European governments 
are of most interest? Which aspects of the transport system merit 
closest study? 
Stage 2: Generating specific questions in a detailed breakdown
This stage consists of questioning the topic area in different ways, making 
the aim and focus of the research more clearly defined, as below: 
‘I am interested in exploring … because I particularly want to discuss …’
24  The PhD Writing Handbook
Moving from stage 1 to stage 2 seems relatively straightforward, but there is 
a danger that the topic will quickly become channelled into one or two very 
specific questions, when there is the possibility of addressing other questions 
that may turn out to be more significant. For this reason, it is a good idea to 
try to generate a wide range of such questions around the topic and to ques-
tion each element of the topic when it is broken down into parts.
Box 2.2. Stage 2 examples 
1.	I am studying Nepal’s political culture and the idea of Hindu kingship 
	
because I want to explore the role of the king in Nepalese society OR …
	
because I’m interested in possible changes in this role since 1900.
2.	I am interested in exploring the political agendas of various European 
governments in the mid nineteenth century and the development of 
the transport system in Brazil because I want to find out the extent to 
which various governments at the time were interested in the develop-
ment of Brazil as a nation.
	
OR … because I want to know why there was so little interest in devel-
oping the railway system, compared to the situation in other countries 
in the region.
Box 2.3. A simple way of breaking down  
your own research topic in detail 
Producing a mind map or another type of organizational diagram is one 
way to identify sub-topics that may lead the research in interesting direc-
tions. The diagram can be tailored to both your needs and your prefer-
ences. Here is an example of one type of diagram: 
Broad topic area
Sub-topic A
Sub-topic B
Sub-topic C
Sub-topic D
Each sub-topic can lead the research in a different direction and can be 
broken down further. Interesting lateral links may also appear across sub-
topics, leading to the emergence of unexpected new research questions. 
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  25
Practise generating as many questions as you can, based on this type of 
‘mind map’ for your own research topic. Can you suggest examples of more 
complex questions that emerge when different sub-topic areas are linked 
together? 
An example of how this might work is provided in Fig 2.1:
Bulgaria
Educational
Change
Fig 2.1 Breaking down a research topic
Possible directions for the arrows might include the following ­considerations:
• 
socialism/communism influences
• 
pre-World War 2 traditions
• 
post-1989 influences
• 
change vs reform
• 
different perceptions of change
• 
different perceptions of reform
• 
consequences of change
• 
different educational sectors 
Here are some possible research questions that could emerge from this 
example, either taking the research in one of the specified directions or 
combining more than one of them by moving in a lateral direction. 
1.	 What have been the attitudes of Bulgarian post-communist governments 
towards educational reform?
2.	 To what extent is educational reform seen as a reaction to socialism/
communism?
3.	 To what extent have pre-World War 2 educational traditions been 
­reintroduced? 
26  The PhD Writing Handbook
Now produce as many questions as you can for your own topic by using 
the map above. If questions seem rather simplistic, this does not need to be 
an immediate cause for concern: they can be combined into more complex 
questions later, making use of lateral connections that may become appar-
ent as different directions are explored. 
Stage 3: Finding significant research questions 
So far in this chapter, three basic criteria sets for choosing a suitable 
research topic have been proposed, namely feasibility (is the topic manage-
able?), specificity (is the topic clearly defined?) and significance (is the topic 
of interest to a particular academic readership?). In this section, we examine 
the third of these. 
At this point, the problematic concept of ‘originality’ also needs to be 
considered. Murray (2002) and other writers argue that this is perhaps the 
‘key criterion for doctoral work.’ At the same time, there are so many possi-
ble interpretations of what might constitute original work that the concept 
appears to be elusive and to resist a clear definition. 
Phillips and Pugh (2005) provide a range of definitions apart from that of 
‘setting down a major piece of new information in writing for the first time’. 
These include:
i.	
carrying out empirical work that has not been done before
ii.	 using familiar material but adding new interpretations
iii.	 conducting familiar research but in a different context
iv.	 bringing new evidence to bear on previously debated issues
Task 2.3: Break down your own research topic using the diagram below:
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  27
In other words, it is not necessary for a doctoral research project to break 
completely new ground as the ‘original’ label might suggest. Taking small 
accumulative steps which add to the existing store of knowledge in a specific 
field will suffice. For this process, the term ‘significance’ will be preferred 
throughout this handbook as a more meaningful alternative. Thus, rather 
than asking ‘is the topic original?’, the question ‘is the topic of interest to 
a particular academic readership and therefore significant?’ will be seen to 
provide a more appropriate reference point. 
What makes a particular research question one that has real signifi-
cance for readers in a particular field? This can be a difficult question to 
answer immediately. At some point, the following sentence will need to be 
completed: 
‘I am interested in exploring … X … in order to help readers understand …’ 
Box 2.4. Stage 3 examples
1.  I am studying Nepal’s political culture and the idea of Hindu kingship 
and am interested in possible changes in this role since 1900 
•  in order to help readers understand the historical reasons for the 
progressive erosion of political consensus in Nepalese society 
since 1995. 
2.  I am interested in exploring the political agendas of various 
European governments in the mid nineteenth century and the devel-
opment of the transport system in Brazil
•  in order to help readers understand that there may have been 
a direct link between interventions made by successive British 
governments and the quality of the transportation network in 
Brazil today. 
Moving from stage 1 to 2 helps focus your research, narrowing the topic 
area. Moving from stage 2 to 3 implies addressing a research problem that 
is significant to a community of readers. While it is likely that the nature of 
this problem (or underlying question) will not be clear at the beginning of the 
research, you can be confident that it will become clear eventually. 
28  The PhD Writing Handbook
There are various ways of finding a suitable research problem in a partic-
ular field of enquiry: 
• 
talking to others, taking part in discussions and debates
• 
presenting your research in a structured oral presentation, followed by a 
question-and-answer session
• 
reading – detecting contradictions, inconsistencies or incomplete 
­explanations
• 
brainstorming the topic and generating multiple questions, especially 
when new connections are established 
For cross-disciplinary research topics, this process becomes even more 
important as each field of inquiry may approach key issues underlying your 
research in a slightly different way. 
Stage 4: Adding research questions linked to practical ­applications
Most researchers will be able to skip this stage entirely. However, some 
research projects, in addition to having significance for a particular commu-
nity, will go beyond the issues under discussion in order to arrive at practi-
cal applications or solutions to specific problems. This may be the case, for 
instance, if you are working towards a professional doctorate and there is 
an expectation that your thesis will provide recommendations based on your 
research findings that will involve a reappraisal of current practices in your 
field. This sentence then requires completion: 
‘I also want readers to be able to consider ways of …’
Box 2.5. Stage 4 examples
1.  Restoring the political consensus in Nepal.
2.  Solving Brazil’s current transport problems. 
There are obviously great dangers inherent in ‘jumping to solutions’ before the 
nature of the actual problems has been fully explored. In many cases, consid-
ering practical applications will prove a step too far. At worst, consideration of 
practical outcomes or benefits of the research can prove a major distraction. 
Stage 5: Turning a research problem into a claim or hypothesis
Once a research problem has been identified, the next step might be to 
clarify the main claim or thesis that will underpin the chapters that you 
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  29
will produce. Many social science disciplinary areas favour this kind of 
approach, however others make it clear that they do not. In some cases, the 
­formulation of specific hypotheses that can be tested against the data may be 
compulsory. At the other extreme, some disciplines require the exact oppo-
site, ­stipulating that all hypotheses or claims should emerge from empirical 
data. It is ­important to clarify from the outset which of these approaches you 
will need to adopt. If stage 5 is relevant to your own research project, the 
following questions (in italics) will need to be asked. 
What kind of claim will you make?
Having presented the problem in the form of the key question or questions to be 
addressed, you then need to consider how you think these questions could and 
should be answered. These answers will provide you with a central hypothesis 
or main claim and will establish your own stance vis-à-vis the research problem. 
Will your readers accept its significance?
This is much harder to determine and will depend on the level of your claim 
and the expectations of readers in your particular area. Booth, Colomb and 
Williams (1995) point out that in some fields of research, it is enough to present 
new information about a subject or an issue that has already been well-­
studied. At a higher level however, research can present new knowledge and 
can also use that knowledge to address uncertain, inconsistent or problemati-
cal phenomena. Finally, at an even higher level research can challenge or even 
upset widely held assumptions or accepted answers to a particular question. 
Box 2.6. Stage 5 examples 
1.  Changes in attitude towards the idea of ‘kingship’ in Nepal in the 
period 1920–1990 resulted in the erosion of political consensus within 
the country.
2.  There is a connection that can be established between the lack of 
development of the railway system in Brazil (when compared to other 
South American countries) and the political agenda of the British 
government in the middle of the nineteenth century. 
Stage 6: Qualifying claims
Once you have decided that you have found a claim or thesis that is both 
specific and significant, you will need to consider its precise wording. 
In particular, you must determine whether it needs to be qualified in some 
way, either by adding certain limiting conditions to it or by hedging. 
30  The PhD Writing Handbook
For some writers it is a real liberation to realize that the claims which 
are being made need not be absolute but may be made subject to such 
­conditions or provisions. Thus, ‘I will claim that X is true only under the 
following conditions … .’ 
The term ‘hedging’ refers to the skilful use of language to soften the force 
of an argument, making it clear that absolute certainty is not attached to a 
particular claim. For further explanation see, for example, Hyland (1995) or 
Holliday (2002: 179). This feature of academic writing will also be explored in 
more detail in Chapter 9. 
Box 2.7. Examples of conditional claims
1.  It will be argued that the 1989 ‘velvet revolution’ in the former 
Czechoslovakia has brought considerable economic benefits to all 
sections of society, provided that the cases of those with military 
pensions are excluded from this analysis.
	
This recognizes the fact that economic benefits have not been shared 
evenly across Czech society, with pensioners suffering the greatest 
disadvantages. 
2.  We can conclude that the famine in North Korea in the late 1990s was 
more widespread than has been reported, assuming that the testi-
mony presented by refugees is considered to be reliable.
	
This acknowledges the fact that the main evidence for this conclusion 
has been provided by refugees and that other perspectives are not 
available, thus limiting the scope of the analysis. 
Box 2.8. Examples of hedged claims
1.  We suggest that the recent social unrest in rural communities in 
France may possibly be due to problems which predate the recent 
arrival of wealthy Britons acquiring holiday homes.
	
Uncertainty concerning the reasons for social unrest is reflected in the 
use of tentative language such as ‘suggest’ rather than ‘argue’. The 
addition of ‘possibly’ makes the statement even more tentative. 
2.  The rapid spread of Spanish in many urban communities in the south-
ern United States would appear to support the argument that these 
parts of the country can begin to be considered truly bilingual.
	
Here the modals ‘would’ and ‘can’ and the verb ‘appear’ all soften the 
force of the argument.  
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  31
It should be noted that the effect of excessive hedging or too many qualifying 
conditions will be to weaken the strength of the claim to the point where it 
may seem unjustified. In addition, too many qualifiers can cause ambiguity 
or a lack of clarity. Consider the following: 
Box 2.9. Examples of unsuccessful hedging
1.  Despite claims made by the government that Bulgaria is undergoing 
educational reform, what is really happening is a return to pre-World 
War 2 traditions – a step backwards rather than forwards.
	
This would almost certainly be regarded as too strong a claim to be 
sustained, with the last phrase ‘a step backwards rather than forwards’ 
a seemingly unnecessary addition. 
2.  It might be suggested that the Bulgarian government might possibly 
not be engaged in educational reform. Instead, it is conceivable that 
what may be happening is a possible return to pre-WW2 traditions.
	
This hedges the evidence using language that conveys the uncertainty 
of the underlying claim. But it goes too far, making the actual claim 
unclear and irritating the reader with the repetition of ‘might’ and 
‘possibly/possible’.
  Developing an updated rationale for the research
Role of the research rationale
A written rationale which builds on the original research proposal (see 
Chapter 1) has an important role to play in the initial stages of research for 
the following reasons:
• 
It can act as a very useful point of reference, aiding communication with 
supervisors, helping to keep discussions more focused and also to map 
progress up to a particular point.
• 
It can help with the exploration, clarification and definition of key 
concepts.
• 
It can act as a ‘justifying document’, representing the first attempts at 
establishing the significance of the research for a specified group of 
readers.
• 
A ‘rolling rationale’ can provide a record of a researcher’s thinking at 
a particular stage of a project. At various points in the future, it will be 
32  The PhD Writing Handbook
necessary to reconnect with previous thinking and the way in which 
ideas have developed over a period of time. In its final form, it can be 
summarized as the research project abstract. 
A proposed structure
How should such a rationale be structured? There are many possible ways of 
approaching this. The following elements are likely to appear in some form: 
• 
a brief presentation of the research context
• 
research aims and questions (as far as this is possible at this stage)
• 
a consideration of the significance of the research aims and questions
• 
a brief overview of the research methodology and data collection 
methods
• 
anticipated findings (as far as possible) 
Rojon and Saunders (2012) have suggested a number of questions for 
­evaluating such a rationale, including the following:
• 
whether the research project ‘adds value’ either by exploring a completely 
new topic or by providing fresh insights into an old topic
• 
whether the research project can demonstrate strong links to relevant 
theory and related literature
• 
whether the research aims and objectives meet the criteria of being ‘trans-
parent, specific, relevant, interconnected, answerable and ­measurable’ 
Task 2.4: An updated research rationale
A template for the updated rationale can be found in Appendix 3. These 
are some of the questions that you may wish to consider beforehand:  
1.	 How can I provide clear boundaries for the context of my research?
2.	 How can I specify research aims if they are not entirely clear at this 
stage?
3.	 How can I formulate research questions? How many questions should 
I include?
4.	 How can I explain and justify the proposed design of the research and 
its procedures for data collection and analysis?
5.	 To what extent can my research be justified? What arguments can I 
put forward to identify its significance? 
There are no ‘right answers’ to such questions. However, they will be 
of considerable assistance when you discuss the development of your 
­research topic with your supervisors and peers.
Developing a Research Topic through Writing  33
1.	 Consider the feasibility of your proposed research topic. Discuss with a 
supervisor whether it will be manageable in its current form within the 
time available.
2.	Consider the specificity of your topic: break it down so that its focus 
becomes clearer. This breakdown can be effectively achieved by combin-
ing lateral and linear approaches.
3.	Consider the significance of your topic: through a mix of reading, writing 
and discussion activities, ensure that your research contributes to your 
field of study.
4.	Develop research questions and claims carefully and thoughtfully: your 
first intuitive efforts may need to be reconsidered.
5.	Pay attention to the wording of any claims or hypotheses: even a slight 
change to the wording may fundamentally change your argument.
6.	Throughout the whole process of research topic development, keep 
writing: gradually build up a revised rationale that will act as a point of 
reference for the entire research project.
Action Points
34
3 Managing Research 
Reading
This chapter
• 
examines the relationship between research reading and writing
•	
considers different reading aims within a research project
•	
identifies problem areas related to text selection
•	
compares different ‘levels’ of reading, contrasting reading to 
­understand and/or to summarize content with reading in order to 
respond to ideas via critical analysis
•	
considers specific reading-to-writing tasks, including summarizing, 
paraphrasing and critical notetaking
 
  Reading aims
The first piece of general advice that supervisors give to PhD researchers is 
very often to ‘go away and read’. When such advice is given and received, 
it seems straightforward enough. But in practice, it can have very different 
meanings for different individuals. It can for some readers mean a green 
light that signals the starting point of a long and convoluted process of 
jumping from text to text, following a reference provided by one text leading 
to another – and then another. In this way it is possible for the reader to 
reach a point which is very far from where they first started without realizing 
precisely how this has happened. It can also mean unintentionally complet-
ing a circle or series of circles and returning to the point of departure. This 
type of process can be immensely frustrating: taken to extremes, it can also 
prove to be both ineffective and unproductive. 
My own experience of reading for a PhD in the early 1990s seems typical. 
My approach to reading was very simple: I calculated that if I summarized 
everything that I identified as important, I would inevitably have valuable 
material that could be used in my writing. Following this logic it is possible 
Managing Research Reading  35
to read 20 articles (or 30 or 40) and to file 20 or more summaries without 
too many problems or without really thinking. Then inevitably, a point is 
reached where decisions have to be made concerning what to do with all of 
the material that has been collected and carefully filed under each author’s 
name. I can remember very clearly reaching this point and realizing that this 
type of approach was not taking me very far, but not really knowing how I 
could find an alternative that would be truly effective. 
A further problem is that producing multiple summaries of other peoples’ 
work does not just lead to a dead end; in the worst cases, it can be seriously 
counterproductive. The danger of the summary is that it takes the reader 
away from the original text and can easily involve the distortion or misrep-
resentation of ideas that are being presented. Such misinterpretations can 
occur either at the time when the summary is produced, or later when the 
summary is re-examined separately from the original text. One distortion 
of facts or ideas can lead to another. Invalid conclusions may be produced 
because they are based on a summary which is itself invalid. 
Early stages of reading
What supervisors usually mean when they say ‘go away and read’ is for 
the reader to begin to read in a gentle exploratory mode, getting a feel for 
the topic of the research project even when this may have been defined in 
advance by a supervisory team. At this stage the aim is not to provide a 
complete overview of everything that is out there but rather to follow leads 
related to the proposed topic. The idea is that the more we read, the more 
we will clarify our thinking. But very often the reverse is true – the more we 
read, the more confused we can become. This experience is summed up by 
these researchers:
Reading on topics related to the research or on the research topic itself 
contracts and expands the area of focus, making it difficult to pinpoint exactly 
what it is that you are studying. The object is amorphous and constantly 
changing.
I’m having difficulties narrowing my focus and not making this a PhD 
about everything. Everything I research seems connected to so much else. It is 
hard to define boundaries and stick to them.
The problem I have is self-made because I became interested in a sub-
branch of my thesis and need to rein myself back.
To prevent exploratory reading from running out of control, it may be useful 
to bear in mind the image of entering an ongoing debate. What we are 
attempting can be seen as the equivalent of walking into a room filled with 
36  The PhD Writing Handbook
people engaged in animated conversations and gradually tuning in to one 
or more of the conversations that are taking place. We can, if we wish, flit 
from one conversation to another, though this is unlikely to make any of 
them particularly meaningful. Alternatively, we can spend a longer amount 
of time eavesdropping before deciding on the precise moment when we feel 
ready and confident enough to join in. In each case we are not just focusing 
on what is being said but also attempting to establish the parameters of the 
debate that is taking place. 
This analogy can be taken only so far. It is clear that discussion and 
debate involving the written word are very different from a rapid interchange 
of ideas. Sometimes it is possible to identify a focused debate that takes place 
over a number of years with one writer responding to an article written by 
another, and possibly a third writer responding to both. In general, however, 
it takes time and effort to discover the different strands of a particular debate 
written by authors who sometimes may not even be aware of the existence 
of another text promoting very different views. It is the reader’s task to try to 
join together the strands before considering all arguments on merit and then 
joining the debate through writing. This is one of the primary purposes of the 
literature review, discussed in the next chapter. 
A second aim of exploratory reading is to help generate new research 
questions, which can then be tested for significance through further reading. 
Chapter 2 describes this process in detail. A third aim is to begin to unpack 
key concepts relevant to the research. These tend to fall into two ­categories – 
more technical concepts and those that appear on first examination to 
be nontechnical in nature. Chapter  5 deals with the exploration of such 
concepts through reading and writing. 
Finally, exploratory reading also has the advantage that it helps build 
what Rugg and Petre (2004: 55) refer to as ‘the researcher’s core literature’. 
These authors argue that most researchers carry round in their memory ‘a 
good accessible database of relevant papers’ that can be valuable for many 
years. A ‘core literature’ is also accompanied by a core bibliography which 
can act as an important reference source for the duration of a PhD research 
project and beyond. 
Later stages of reading
At a certain point, exploratory reading needs to end. Once the research 
topic has been developed by following the kinds of procedures described 
in Chapter  2, it is both possible and necessary to approach reading in a 
much more focused way. This is the time for you to start trying out specific 
questions to see where they lead when compared to the work of other 
Managing Research Reading  37
­researchers, to begin to test your claims or hypotheses, to investigate 
whether others have asked similar questions or posited similar claims and, if 
so, what types of answers or results were obtained. Another approach might 
consist of investigating whether your proposed research questions have 
already been considered in a different context. Similarly, it is worth finding 
out whether the claims or hypotheses that you are putting forward have 
been tested by other writers and, if so, with what results. The quality and 
quantity of evidence supporting claims made by writers also need to be care-
fully researched. Finally, it is clearly important to look for counterclaims and 
counterevidence so that all sides of a particular debate can be represented. 
This process does not, however, imply a suppression of your own voice. 
An important consequence of this type of exercise is that you will be able 
to position yourself somewhere within the debate with growing levels of 
authority, strengthening your stance as you conduct a careful analysis 
of your reading. Booth, Colomb & Williams (1995: 95) describe this type 
of reading in these terms: 
When you read, be generous. Read first to understand fully. Go slowly: 
re-read passages that puzzle or confuse you. If you cannot summarize a 
passage in your mind, assume you don’t understand it well enough to use 
it as an argument. Don’t start by assuming that you have to disagree with 
everything you find. In this first reading, resolve ambiguities in favour of the 
source. But once you understand a source, you are free to disagree.
Deciding when exploratory reading needs to end and more focused reading 
needs to begin requires very careful consideration. There is always a danger 
of narrowing the focus of research reading too soon, just as there is with 
the choice of research questions (see Chapter 2). To ensure that the focus 
is right, some readers prefer to go back to exploratory mode from time 
to time  – an approach which is especially useful if completely new ideas 
emerge from reading or from discussions with supervisors or peers. 
  Problem areas associated with reading
This section considers some of the main problem areas involved in the 
management of your reading, together with some effective strategies 
for dealing with them. For an examination of the problems that readers 
may experience in understanding the style of certain academic texts, see 
Chapter 9. 
38  The PhD Writing Handbook
Access to sources
In the pre-digital age the problem was often one of lack of availability of 
source materials, especially if speedy access was required. Inter-library loans 
were an important means of obtaining texts not available locally, but these 
could sometimes take weeks or even months. Journals provided indexes that 
necessitated time-consuming manual searches. 
Now it seems that the problem is the direct opposite. On one website 
alone (the British Library’s Electronic Theses Online Service – EThOS), it is 
possible to search through almost all of the PhD theses completed in the UK 
in recent years and to download many of them free of charge. At the time 
of writing there were 400,000 entries with over 150,000 offering access to 
the full thesis text. The British Library, as part of the EThOS project, has also 
digitized a large number of older theses so that the range could be expanded 
even more. For details, see http://www.ethos.ac.uk/.
How do you cope with this power at your fingertips? With such abun-
dance, clear selection criteria will need to be applied on a consistent basis. 
Establishing selection criteria
At the start of a PhD research project, it may be the case that you have no 
clearly defined criteria for deciding which texts require close attention and 
which texts can be rejected. As a result, you may find yourself inadvertently 
doing some or all of the following: 
• 
reading very slowly and producing few meaningful notes
• 
reading each text in exactly the same way and at the same speed
• 
reading everything twice or three times to make sure it is understood
• 
giving equal attention to each sentence and each paragraph within a text
• 
taking notes in an identical way for each text
• 
summarizing texts in a similar way after careful reading 
However, even a momentary pause for thought is enough to realize that 
these types of procedures may not be productive. Certain texts (those 
identified as key texts) are bound to be more significant than others. It is 
also likely that other texts will produce only one or two useful items – a 
quotation, a single argument, a set of statistics or even a diagram or table. 
Furthermore, there are texts that might be considered ‘possible texts’ 
when we realize that our attitude towards them might change at some 
point. This is true even for those texts that appear to be ‘impossible’, with 
no obvious relevance or quality. The different levels might be summarized 
as follows: 
Managing Research Reading  39
Box 3.1. Categorization of reading texts
‘Seminal’
A text of such importance that it is required reading in a particular area
‘Key’ (or ‘Important’)
A text that merits detailed reading and understanding
‘Useful’
A text that contains more than one interesting or useful idea
‘Single item’
A text that contains one useful fact, argument, quotation or illustrative 
example
‘Possible’
A text that might be useful in the future
‘Impossible’
A text that can be rejected at this stage
At the top of my categorization is the seminal text. This is the one that you 
believe you have to read because it contains original thinking relevant to the 
research topic and has influenced many other writers. You may not need 
to read it in its entirety, but you have at least to acknowledge its existence. 
A text might be considered seminal not just in terms of its specific content: it 
could, for instance, have been written by the person who first proposed the 
theoretical framework that underpins much of your analysis. To sum up, it 
may not be your most valuable text, but it is considered a significant point 
of reference. Some examples in specific fields might include Edward Said’s 
Orientalism in anthropology or history (1978), or Noam Chomsky’s Aspects of 
the Theory of Syntax in linguistics (1965).
A key (important) text is one that you read intensively, paying attention 
to more or less every word and every paragraph. Almost every section of 
this type of text may be considered to be of value. Intensive reading implies 
that you have already decided that this text is going to be important for your 
research, and you propose to examine all the different elements with the aim 
of extracting valuable and relevant arguments, interesting quotations, facts 
or summative analysis. Sometimes it is hard to identify really important texts 
of this type. One certainty is that over a period of time your thinking will 
change with respect to their importance or lack of importance. For instance, 
40  The PhD Writing Handbook
it is possible to look at a text in the early stages of research and think that 
it can play a key role in your analysis, only to discover later that it is based 
on another text which is of greater significance. It may also be the case that 
a later reading begins to give the impression that the arguments are rather 
shallow or the evidence is thin. Conversely, you can look at a text and wonder 
whether it is of interest or not. One useful test might be to highlight interest-
ing ideas or facts and then consider their number and their significance. The 
more that you are highlighting, the more likely it is to be important. 
The useful text is one that does not need to be read intensively from 
beginning to end but contains a number of valuable elements in certain 
sections, such as a series of arguments, powerful quotations, tables, 
diagrams or sets of statistics. In my invented selection system, I find that 
many texts tend to fall into this category, at least initially. Often, however, 
they will be downgraded or upgraded to ‘key’ status at a later date. 
The single item text is self-explanatory. Its identified purpose is to 
provide you with just one usable argument, counterargument, fact, quota-
tion, picture or diagram. In my experience, many texts tend to be located 
in this category. This is where very careful records are required: it is easy 
to forget a reference when the rest of the text may appear to be completely 
irrelevant. It is also worth noting that the single item might just be a further 
reference in the bibliography attached to the text itself. 
A possible text is one that you are not sure about but are unwilling to 
reject, as you believe that it might be helpful in some way. Such texts may or 
may not be upgraded at a later date. 
Finally, there are impossible texts, which do not appear to have 
anything to offer. Before the text is discarded, bear in mind that your thinking 
might change. The text may be discarded, but the fact that you have consid-
ered it must not be forgotten. Record the reference carefully and store it for 
future reference. 
Leaving your footprints
Every time you read a text, you will need to leave tracks to show that you 
have been there – tracks that you will recognize if you return to the same text 
at a later date. For PhD research, I believe that this of particular importance 
as the gap between a first reading and a later reading of the same text might 
be a month, a year or even much longer. 
A familiar past experience for me has been returning to a text and imme-
diately asking myself questions such as, ‘Have I been here before? When 
exactly? Did I mark my presence in any way? What did I think about this text? 
What decisions did I take as a result of reading it?’ If it is possible to return 
to a text and find clear answers to such questions, this can provide a direct 
communication channel to a previous way of thinking. 
Managing Research Reading  41
Footprints can be left in a number of ways. At a very simple level, we can 
highlight facts or ideas with a coloured marker or a collection of coloured 
pens. We can summarize and then synthesize important ideas. We can 
query text content, compare one text to another, write and file analytical 
notes which make our reaction to the text very clear. All of this can help 
us demonstrate to ourselves that a text is valuable in some way or that it 
lacks value. This is the evidence that we can refer back to that shows that 
we have read something and understood its importance and its relevance to 
our research. 
To revisit a text after a period of time, we need to understand and recon-
sider our first impressions. We may discover that they have not changed or 
that they need to be updated. There are even significant occasions when 
we realize that our very first impressions now seem to be ‘the right ones’, 
with later changes in thinking suddenly seeming misguided. Whatever the 
changes in our thinking may be as we read, we need to keep track of all of 
them, particularly with reference to key texts. 
To sum up, every time we read a text we are doing so at a particular stage 
in the development of our own thinking. It can be confidently predicted that 
reading the same text in six months’ time will be a different experience. 
Recording the narrative of our thinking is a crucial aspect of any research 
project, but is of particular importance in PhD work which can take many 
years to complete. 
Applying the selection criteria
How is it possible for you to decide whether a text is really important for your 
research? And how can you overcome the understandable fear of missing 
something vital? There are a number of possible indicators. For instance, 
research papers can provide many clues to the content of a text and quality 
of analysis by means of the abstract. In other texts, indicators can include 
the introductory and concluding sections and even the topic sentences that 
begin paragraphs in structured writing. A paper can be skimmed by just 
focusing on these clues, and thus an initial assessment can be made: if 
the decision is to read the text more carefully, this decision can always be 
reversed. However, if every sentence of every paragraph is assumed to have 
equal merit, this will clearly lead to an approach to reading which is both 
ineffective and probably unproductive as well. The majority of texts listed in 
a bibliography may well turn out to be ‘single item’, with the rest of the text 
discarded. 
The following introductory paragraph of a briefing paper produced by a 
team of academics is presented in a way that is likely to help the reader make an 
informed decision concerning its importance and relevance. Each ­paragraph 
is introduced by a topic sentence (which I have underlined). Each topic 
42  The PhD Writing Handbook
sentence acts as a clear indicator of the arguments that will be developed 
within the paragraph. Each paragraph adds new information by means of the 
topic sentence. Finally, the topic sentences can be read in sequence indicat-
ing the direction in which the argumentation is being developed: 
Box 3.2. Exploring the Links between Climate 
Change, Agriculture and Development:  
A briefing paper
Key messages
The scale of the challenges posed by climate change requires urgent 
action. Agriculture is both a major cause of global warming, and will be 
significantly affected by it. More demands are now being placed upon 
agriculture: global food security, responding to climate change, protect-
ing environmental services. This presents both challenges and opportu-
nities to policy-makers and practitioners. 
Many climate change adaptation or mitigation initiatives have 
been project-based activities – but this is insufficient. Climate change 
responses require more coordinated action amongst relevant stakehold-
ers across different scales. Planning and capacity strengthening has 
to be integrated into government policy-making in a coherent fashion. 
Responding to climate change requires consideration of the implications 
for trade flows as well as production impacts. Economic models may 
need to be revisited. Climate change challenges need to be understood 
as they interact with other major development processes (e.g. globalisa-
tion, de-agrarianisation, urbanisation, migration). 
More integrated or holistic conceptual frameworks have emerged 
in recent years, which seek to combine more specific climate change 
responses (e.g. particular mitigation technologies) with shorter and 
longer term development objectives. Proponents of existing concepts, 
such as sustainable agriculture, increasingly recognize climate change 
issues. The green economy concept suggests that future economic 
development and the securing of environmental services are intertwined. 
In the agricultural sector, the broad concept of Climate Smart Agriculture 
is moving to the fore. It merges productivity, adaptation, mitigation and 
climate resilience, alongside broader development goals. 
There is a crowded field of climate change and related concepts which 
jostle for attention. Each concept has its own promoters and opponents – 
some more powerful than others. The broad nature of the concepts 
➔
Managing Research Reading  43
Critical and ‘non-critical’ reading
A major problem area recognized by PhD writers is the need to establish a 
strong connection between research reading and research writing. At the 
beginning of this chapter, I described my own experiences in this respect and 
endorsed the need for an approach that will take the reader beyond merely 
recording and summarizing what is being said by each author. To develop 
such an approach, a useful starting point might be to consider two distinct 
levels or modes of reading, as specified below. In the rest of this chapter, 
I will refer to these as ‘Level 1’ and ‘Level 2’ reading. Their basic character-
istics are as follows. 
Level 1: ’Surface reading’
Reading at a more superficial level involves achieving a basic understanding 
of all or part of the content of a text. Typical tasks can include:
• 
picking out main arguments or identifying a writer’s stance
• 
identifying specific information such as evidence underpinning an 
­argument
• 
brief summaries of important sections of text 
In addition, Level 1 reading can also involve a mix of strategies such as: 
• 
predicting the content of academic texts
• 
skimming for gist understanding
allows for varied interpretations in implementation, encourages inclu-
siveness and sparks debate. Conversely broad definitions risk masking 
real differences in development visions including questions of participa-
tion, power and equity, the forms of technology and institutions involved, 
the role of markets and national autonomy. Too open a definition could 
prevent recognition of the need for more game changing action. 
Making these concepts operational presents many challenges, not the 
least of which are building consensus, creating the right incentives and 
enabling conditions. Climate change may only be adding to the chal-
lenges facing agriculture, but it could also act as a catalyst, alongside 
other global concerns, to create fresh opportunities for sustainable agri-
cultural development.
Nelson, V. & Lamboll, R. 2012, Briefing Paper: Climate Learning for African 
­Agriculture, Natural Resources Unit, University of Greenwich
44  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
scanning for specific ideas
• 
decoding complexity
• 
paraphrasing ideas
• 
referencing ideas
• 
synthesizing ideas 
Level 2: Critical reading
At a higher level, reading involves not just understanding but also responding 
to ideas within a text via critical analysis. At the simplest level, this means 
questioning the ideas that are being presented. A question mark added to a 
piece of text can sometimes be more revealing than a summarized version 
of what the writer has to say, as it can signal very clearly to the returning 
reader that a sentence or paragraph requires more careful examination. 
It is useful, however, to break down this type of questioning process into 
three distinct areas. The first concerns examining a writer’s stance and in 
particular the following: 
• 
identifying writer agendas that are explicit (overt)
• 
identifying writer agendas that are implicit (covert)
• 
locating a writer’s perspective within one or more established paradigms 
Sometimes, it can be useful to try to locate a writer’s position within a partic-
ular school of thought or paradigm. Thody (2006: 100) supplies categories 
for this process by using broad labels such as ‘political’, ‘religious’, ‘social’, 
or ‘postcolonialist’, ‘feminist’ and ‘postmodernist’. PhD researchers may feel 
that they are to some extent obliged to align authors to a particular school 
of thought in this way. It should be borne in mind, however, that this kind of 
labelling cannot be summative and that a justification of some sort for this 
kind of placement will be required. 
The second approach towards critical reading is more complex in that 
it entails an examination of different aspects of the logic and coherence of a 
writer’s arguments. There are many distinct possibilities here, such as:
• 
considering the validity of claims put forward by a writer
• 
identifying and commenting on any ‘hidden’ assumptions underlying 
claims
• 
considering arguments arising from the main claims
• 
examining different circumstances or contexts in which claims might be 
demonstrably true or false
• 
considering any generalizations based on claims
Managing Research Reading  45
• 
considering the quantity and the quality of supporting evidence
• 
considering the validity of a writer’s conclusions
This type of analysis can often be very productive when applied to a text 
that seems important and relevant to your research. It is very unusual for 
an entire text to be deeply flawed, but it is more common for there to be a 
single but significant flaw in the arguments. The starting point is to consider 
any claims that are being put forward and to examine carefully whether any 
questionable assumptions are built in. A very simple example of this can be 
seen below: 
Box 3.3. Examining assumptions  
that underlie a claim
‘Tourism is beneficial to developing nations in a number of ways’
First assumption: readers will have a shared understanding of what 
‘tourism’ includes and excludes.
Second assumption: readers will have a shared understanding of the 
meaning of ‘developing’ and will be in agreement concerning which 
nations can be classified as such.
Third assumption: ‘a number of ways’ might include social and cultural 
as well as economic benefits.
Sometimes impressive-sounding language may hide a flimsy claim or argu-
ment or a lack of substantial supporting evidence. When assessing complex 
texts in terms of their importance and relevance for our research, we will 
need to realize that a particular text can only make a significant contribu-
tion to the debate either when we can show that the arguments are robust 
or when it is our deliberate intention to demonstrate that the arguments are 
flawed. The validity of arguments and the conclusions drawn from them are, 
of course, subject to debate, and in the latter case, we will need to demon-
strate a discontinuity or contradiction of some sort, asking ourselves ques-
tions such as, ‘How do arguments presented within a text compare with the 
initial premise or claim made earlier?’ 
Booth, Colomb and Williams (1995: 72–3) have produced a useful over-
view for disagreeing with the claims made by source materials. This includes 
46  The PhD Writing Handbook
a specification of different types of contradictions that can be detected. For 
example, you can argue that: 
• 
X cannot always be placed in category Y
• 
X cannot necessarily be considered part of Y
• 
X cannot be considered as a further development of Y
• 
X does not cause Y
• 
Though X appears to cause Y, it also has other significant consequences
• 
Though X may be true in one context, this may not be the case elsewhere 
The third approach within Level 2 reading involves an examination of the use 
of language by authors and a consideration of its effects (whether intended 
or unintended). Questions that we might usefully ask ourselves here include 
the following:
• 
Is the author exaggerating? In what respects?
• 
Is the author making use of vague language? For what purpose(s)?
• 
Are there any ambiguities in the language used? Do these appear to be 
intentional or unintentional?
• 
Does the use of language affect the quality of the claims being made? Do 
claims need to be modified or hedged as a result? 
Critical reading skills across cultures
In my experience, a question that often arises is whether critical reading 
skills are easy to develop if the reader has been educated within a differ-
ent tradition. The comment of one researcher is typical in this respect when 
she states that ‘It is very hard for me to read something and then question 
it because I was raised in a way to not question. When it says “academic 
article”, I fear saying that this is wrong.’ 
One problem is that when we read a text that seems difficult, our auto-
matic reaction is, if I cannot understand the argument, then it must somehow 
be my fault. We will need to examine this assumption more carefully because 
difficulty could equally be the consequence of ambiguity or even obfuscation 
in the writing itself. See Chapter  9 for a more detailed discussion of what 
could be considered ‘difficult language’ within academic texts. 
At the same time, the thinking that underpins critical reading needs to be 
examined, as there are variations in the understanding of ‘critical thinking’ 
in different cultures. In particular, the negative connotations of ‘critical’ and 
‘criticism’ need to be considered. Critical thinking appears to exist every-
where in some form, across cultures and across disciplinary areas. However, 
the norms of critical analysis may be different. When conducting research in 
Managing Research Reading  47
a different culture, it is essential to be fully aware of these norms and expec-
tations, both when reading and also when writing for your own readers. 
A clear breakdown of the concept as it is understood across many higher 
education environments is provided by Cottrell (2005: 2). 
  Notetaking: From reading into writing
In this section, we examine ways in which the development of reading 
strategies can provide a series of direct links between reading and writing. 
A range of different ways of recording reading will also be presented for 
consideration. 
Level 1 notetaking
Earlier, it was argued that Level 1 reading involves achieving a basic under-
standing of all or part of the content of a text. As a result, typical notetaking 
tasks at this level might include any of the following: 
• 
writing a short summary of the main arguments or facts presented
• 
selecting more detailed information in response to specific questions
• 
extracting a quotation to illustrate a particular point
• 
paraphrasing of ideas presented within the text
• 
synthesizing of ideas presented in different parts of the text 
Box 3.4. Typical Level 1 questions
1.	What claims are being made in this text? Where are the claims stated?
2.	What evidence has been produced to support the claims?
3.	What conclusions have been drawn based on the evidence? 
Notetaking at Level 1 can serve multiple purposes. Wallace (2004: 165) 
provides a useful overview of these, ranging from situations in which the 
reader needs to remember something very precisely to those where the aim 
is to be much more selective in what is recorded. At one extreme, we can 
note down exact words in the form of a quotation; at the other we summa-
rize or paraphrase one particular piece of information. In between the two, 
we may find ourselves taking a greater interest in some parts of the text than 
others. The same author also claims that interacting with a text in such ways 
48  The PhD Writing Handbook
is likely to make it more memorable. If a text becomes memorable, there is a 
greater likelihood that we can put it to productive use at a later stage. 
Notetaking at this level can involve the reprocessing of information in a 
number of different ways, the most conspicuous of these being summarizing, 
paraphrasing and synthesizing. 
Summarizing
According to Swales and Feak (1994: 105), a good summary should: 
1.	 offer a balanced coverage of the original
2.	 present the source material in a neutral fashion
3.	 condense the source material and be presented in the summary writer’s 
own words 
This is sound advice. At this level, as I have noted previously, it is important 
that there is no distortion (whether deliberate or inadvertent) of a writer’s 
views. The selection or exclusion of information must produce a text shorter 
than the original but one which preserves the balance of the original argu-
mentation. If counterarguments, for instance, are carefully considered in the 
original, this would normally need to be reflected in the summarized version. 
If a range of evidence from different sources is mentioned in the original, this 
also needs to be acknowledged in the summarized version. As far as possi-
ble, the summarized text will need to be presented with a clear emphasis 
on views expressed by the original writer, with the views of the summarizer 
being excluded. 
Achieving a ‘neutral’ tone within a summary is, however, not as easy 
as it sounds. Variations in language used by summarizers can alter the 
writer’s original views in subtle ways. There is no perfect solution to this: 
the summarizer’s use of his or her own words will inevitably alter the tone 
of the  original text to some extent. What is important is to keep this in 
mind and to check and, if necessary, re-edit text summaries very carefully. 
A final point to bear in mind is that there are occasions in which a 
summarizer may actually improve the clarity of the original text, such as in 
cases where there is significant repetition, excessive use of imagery or exem-
plification, gratuitous use of jargon, redundancy or obscurity. 
Paraphrasing
The act of paraphrasing involves the restating of another writer’s ideas in 
your own words. The ideas remain theirs and will need to be acknowledged, 
while the choice of the precise wording is yours. Paraphrasing is in itself not 
Managing Research Reading  49
a particularly problematic process. The difficulty lies in choosing when to 
paraphrase rather than quote a writer’s words directly. 
Booth, Colomb and Williams (1995: 207) recommend the use of para-
phrase when you are more interested in the actual nature of findings rather 
than in how a source expresses them. For these authors, direct quotations 
are more relevant when either the authority of the source writer or the exact 
words are seen to be significant. Two additional reasons for preferring para-
phrased versions of events are suggested: 
• 
In many cases, you will be able to express more clearly than the original 
author the key ideas that you wish to convey to your intended readers.
• 
You will also wish to avoid any accusation of writing in a derivative and 
unoriginal fashion. Frequent verbatim quotations from other writers 
could easily be regarded in this way. 
Synthesizing
Synthesizing in relation to research writing involves the combining of ideas 
or information either from within a single source text or across a range of 
texts. Here is an example: 
Box 3.5. Synthesizing different  
source ­references
Source 1: Billig (2013) claims that the use of a large amount of technical 
terminology may be convenient for certain academic writers, but very 
often ‘ordinary words’ can be used to greater effect since ideas can be 
communicated more quickly and more effectively. 
Source 2: According to Culler (2003), intellectual effort is required on 
the part of the readers of ‘difficult’ academic texts. The writer cannot 
be reasonably expected to make every argument 100 per cent clear for 
every reader. 
Source 3: Butler (2003) argues that language has an important role in 
taking the reader away from common ‘frames of reference’, enabling us 
to see the world in new ways. 
Possible synthesis: ‘While authors such as Billig (2013) criticize ­stylistic 
excess in academic writing, others (for example Culler 2003, Butler 
2003) argue that “difficult writing” cannot always be considered an 
­unreasonable burden on readers and is often fully justifiable’.
50  The PhD Writing Handbook
It might be argued that producing a synthesis of this type goes beyond our 
previous definition of Level 1 reading. Summarizing different texts and then 
combining or comparing them does appear to provide a bridge between 
Level 1 and Level 2 reading activities as the synthesizing process can often 
lead directly into critical analysis. 
Level 2 notetaking
At Level 2, notetaking begins to involve different kinds of critical analysis, 
such as: 
• 
highlighting and then interpreting key points or quotes
• 
identifying specific arguments and key issues which have a particular 
relevance to the research project
• 
annotating the text with your own critical comments on specific points
• 
drawing conclusions from these comments and presenting them in a 
summarized form
• 
obtaining analysis which is directly linked to arguments within the text 
itself and therefore not based on a summarized version removed from 
the original
• 
commenting on language used to express arguments, especially emotive 
language, rhetoric, exaggeration and vague or non-specific terms 
Box 3.6. Typical Level 2 questions
1.  What are your views on the value of the claims being made? Do you 
agree or partially agree with them? On what grounds?
2.  What are your views on the value of the evidence presented?
3.  What are your views on any conclusions that are being drawn?
4.  How do the arguments presented compare with those of other 
authors?
5.  How do the arguments presented compare with your own thinking?
6.  Overall, how impressed are you with the quality of the arguments 
presented? Do you find them convincing or not?
A typical Level 2 notetaking sequence
Notetaking usually begins with the highlighting of key points or quotations. 
For Level 2 reading, the second and most important step is to begin to 
formulate a response to these. The kind of questions we might ask ourselves 
Managing Research Reading  51
at this stage can be expected to result in notes that begin to form the basis of 
critical analysis as follows: 
1.	 This is what this author has to say on the particular issue that interests 
me.
2.	 These seem to be the underlying reason(s).
3.	 This is the evidence supporting the reasons.
4.	 This could be said to be the author’s stance.
5.	 This is my reaction to the basic claim or premise.
6.	 This is my reaction to the development of the arguments (logical? 
flawed?).
7.	 This is my reaction to the evidence presented.
8.	 This is my reaction to the conclusions drawn. 
Even if the comment is in the form of a question mark, or simply records that 
something looks interesting or that you agree or disagree with what is being 
said, this can give some indication of your thinking at a particular point in 
time. 
The following extract from a research proposal at Master’s level shows 
how this approach might work in practice. The first step is to highlight or 
shade the key points that are being made. The second is to add analytic 
comments in response to these arguments:
Box 3.7. Annotating a reading 
text with ­analytical comments
In the last decade, the influx of Chinese students in 
UK institutions of higher education has increased 
immensely. These students, upon arrival in the UK, 
face a culture different from their own and they need 
to deal with problems of adjustment, both from a 
sociocultural as well as an educational point of view. 
The impact of all the unfamiliar experiences that 
Chinese students face is connected with the terms 
of Culture Shock and Learning Shock. The shock 
occurs in terms of changing places and cultural 
­transition since China and the UK are two very 
different  countries. During this transition, Chinese 
students encounter pedagogical, sociocultural and 
Are Culture 
Shock and 
Learning 
Shock 
completely 
separate 
phenomena? 
Or can one 
be included 
in the other?
➔
>
52  The PhD Writing Handbook
­psychological challenges, all of which are equally 
important. Nonetheless, in this dissertation I will 
focus only on the pedagogical challenges and the 
Chinese students’ adjustment with regard to the 
British academic culture. 
Based on Clark’s identification of three broad 
value systems permeating the contemporary 
educational process (1987), Classical Humanism, 
Reconstructionism and Progressivism, I will refer to 
the Educational Value Systems of the two countries 
and highlight the differences that cause difficulties 
in the Chinese students’ academic adjustment. I 
will further analyse specific cultural values that are 
inextricably linked with the Chinese students as 
individuals and their importance in shaping these 
students’ attitudes and learning practices. Some of 
the difficulties faced when trying to culturally adjust 
to teaching and learning in a British University 
include critical thinking, learner autonomy, plagia-
rism, classroom participation, and assessment. I will 
particularly focus on autonomy, participation and 
assessment while linking them with the educational 
and cultural values. 
Chinese students’ thinking, classroom behav-
iour and learning styles have been influenced and 
shaped by cultural values and beliefs that are not the 
same as those of Western countries. More precisely, 
Western ‘cultures’ of teaching and approaches to 
learning tend to focus and give priority and impor-
tance to student-centeredness, critical thinking and 
application of knowledge, whereas the Chinese ones 
tend to emphasize teacher-centeredness, rote learn-
ing and memorization. Consequently, the Chinese 
students who arrive for studies in the UK encounter 
difficulties, since approaches and methods to teach-
ing and learning differ significantly.
The Chinese educational system has been highly 
influenced by the Confucian cultural heritage, which 
is a critical element of the Chinese cultural ­identity. 
Confucianism operates within a hierarchically ­orientated 
Are these 
equally 
­problematic 
for all 
Chinese 
students? 
And is 
the order 
random or 
in order of 
­difficulty?
Is it 
­problematic 
to group all 
‘Western’ 
countries 
together?
Is this 
cultural 
identity 
stable or in 
the process 
of being 
changed?
Important 
to them? To 
others?
>
>
>
Managing Research Reading  53
If you can annotate a key text with analytical comments of this type, the next 
stage could be to produce a summary at the end. This will be a summary of 
a different kind – not a condensed version of what the author of the text is 
saying but a summary of your considered response. The question that this 
kind of summary addresses will be simply, ‘Am I convinced?’ 
An analytic summary can also take the reader beyond the text that is 
being examined. The resulting analysis might include a consideration of: 
• 
how this author’s stance appears to compare with those of others
• 
how your own views compare with those of other critics 
For the extract above, you could add a short summary such as this one to 
your notes:
It is difficult to avoid making generalizations with this kind of topic. 
The  assumption concerning shared Western values seems particularly 
problematic (see Watkins and Biggs 1996), but the idea of shared Chinese 
values may be equally so. The Hofstede framework should provide a 
useful point of reference for comparing findings from this project with 
those of other studies.
What is being proposed here is very different from Level 1 reading. It involves 
a recognition that an important element of reading is writing to yourself, 
recording ideas as they occur to you. Ethnographers such as Hammersley 
and Atkinson (1983: 191–2) have long recognized this at the data collection 
stage when analytical notes are produced to be built into a written narra-
tive. In this case, the kind of analytical summaries that are described above 
are sometimes referred to as ‘in-process memos’ (Emerson, Fretz and Shaw 
1995: 103–5). 
society some characteristics of which are respect of authority, emphasis 
on the family and traditional educational methods, preservation of harmony 
and avoidance of losing face. All of these have implications when it comes 
to teaching and learning in a British educational context and they will all be 
analysed in detail in the following chapter. In order to facilitate a better under-
standing of the cultural and educational differences between China and the 
UK, I will examine them within the analytical framework that Hofstede (1983) 
provides for comparing cultural values.
54  The PhD Writing Handbook
1.	 Make sure that the early stages of reading are productive by defining the 
scope of your project as you develop your research topic. Do not allow 
exploratory reading to run out of control: develop your own selection 
criteria for categorizing texts in order of perceived importance.
2.	Read to try out your research questions and test your hypotheses, and 
read for evidence to support and strengthen your arguments.
3.	Read to summarize, paraphrase and synthesize (Level 1 reading). Read in 
order to formulate analysis in response to key texts (Level 2 reading).
4.	Make use of abstracts, headings and topic sentences to access the 
content of texts.
5.	Produce analytical notes and summaries to enable you to reconnect to 
texts: leave your footprints when reading key texts.
6.	Make a note of everything that you read even in the case of texts that 
may seem inappropriate: your thinking might change in the future.
Action Points
If a reader can produce analysis of this type while reading, the result 
might be a small but focused piece of writing that could even be directly 
transferable into a paragraph in a draft chapter. It is arguable that a Level 
1 summary of what a writer has said could also be transposed, but its use 
and effectiveness in developing your own arguments would probably be 
considerably less. Once reading and critical analysis become simultaneous 
processes, it becomes a little easier to bridge the gap between reading and 
writing. We read in order to write: our task is to integrate what we read into 
the context of our own writing. We think to ourselves, ‘At this particular 
point in time, this is my question, this is my reaction, this is my response’. 
55
4 Producing a Literature 
Review
This chapter 
• 
examines the multiple purposes of a literature review within a PhD 
research project
• 
explores alternative approaches to compiling a literature review and 
identifies potential problem areas
• 
considers the following questions: What type of literature review do 
you need? What steps will you follow to manage and assemble the 
relevant literature? How will you record your reading? How will you 
integrate your notes into draft and final chapters? 
  The literature review as a process and a product
The term ‘literature review’ can mean different things to different people. 
Confusingly, it is commonly used to describe both a process and a product. 
As a process, it can involve any or all of the following while engaging with 
‘the literature’: 
• 
exploring and guiding the development of research topics
• 
testing research questions, claims and hypotheses
• 
examining counterclaims and alternative hypotheses
• 
identifying, exploring and defining key concepts
• 
exploring research methodologies
• 
examining other relevant research projects and case studies 
Meanwhile in its capacity as the end product of such work, a literature 
review can be embedded within a thesis in a number of ways. Here are some 
of the more common alternatives:
56  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
an introductory chapter, providing a broad context for your research with 
reference to relevant literature
• 
a designated chapter within your thesis (as is often the case at Master’s 
level)
• 
a number of designated chapters or designated sections within different 
chapters
• 
a series of separate chapters each relating to different studies that are 
included in the PhD thesis 
Whether you are using the term in its ‘process’ or in its ‘product’ sense, it is 
essential for you to clarify the expectations of all the potential readers, includ-
ing supervisors, examiners or other academics within your particular field or 
associated fields. Such expectations can vary greatly and, if ignored, can lead 
to potential misunderstandings. If, for example, you are conducting cross-
disciplinary research, you might experience different reactions from different 
readers. If you are following the ‘papers model’ of the PhD, producing a new 
study for each year of your research project, there may be an expectation 
that you will produce entirely separate literature reviews for each study or a 
requirement for them to be closely linked. Hence the need to negotiate what 
the literature review as product will look like and how the literature review 
as process will need to be undertaken. 
  The purposes of a literature review
There are many potential sources of guidance available for producing success-
ful literature reviews. Generic examples include the work of Hart (1998) and 
Ridley (2008). There are also useful discipline-specific guides, one example 
of which is considered below. One worrying aspect is that these sources of 
support contain a wide range of different interpretations of the purpose of a 
literature review and its significance within a research project. The apparent 
lack of agreement between writers might perhaps be expected when compar-
ing discipline-specific books, but less so in sourcebooks aimed at the general 
reader. The result is a rather confusing picture for aspiring PhD writers. 
To illustrate such differences and examine their implications, I conducted 
an exercise with a group of about 100 PhD research students in their first year 
of study spread over a period of one year. All were committed to producing a 
literature review as part of the early stages of PhD research in preparation for 
a significant milestone – their first supervisory board. Nearly all were uncer-
tain how to approach the literature review as a process and the nature of 
their final product. Three sources of guidance were chosen, two of which can 
be considered generic while the other is discipline specific: Cresswell (2003) 
‘Research Design’, Sage Publications, Dornyei (2007) ‘Research Methods in 
Producing a Literature Review  57
Applied Linguistics’, Oxford University Press and Thody (2006) ‘Writing and 
Presenting Research’, Sage Publications. The groups of PhD students were 
asked to compare different interpretations by the three authors on the role of 
a literature review in a research project. They were also invited to respond 
to the definitions and indicate which ones they found to be most applicable 
to their own research. The most useful points resulting from this exercise are 
summarized just below. 
Joining an ongoing debate or dialogue (Cresswell 2003: 30)
This was considered to be an essential component of any literature review. 
Your review provides you with an access point to a debate that is already 
going on around you. There is a clear implication that your voice will feature 
prominently in the review that you produce. 
Revealing current understanding of your topic (Thody 2006: 92)
A literature review needs to provide an in-depth analysis of the work of 
other writers who have already conducted research in your topic area. Thody 
suggests that to some extent it should also ‘pay homage to those who have 
gone before you’. However, participants felt that using this type of expres-
sion could easily be misinterpreted. There is a clear difference between 
acknowledging the contributions made by others while critically appraising 
them and offering unmitigated praise. 
Providing a framework for establishing the significance of a study 
(Cresswell 2003: 30)
Another important function of any literature review is to establish the signifi-
cance of your research project by placing it within a wider context. This 
cannot be achieved by simply demonstrating the range of your knowledge 
or ensuring that the review ‘acts as a map of the terrain’ (Dornyei 2007: 
281). The primary aim of a review should be to survey source materials that 
are directly related to the research topic rather than a body of literature in 
a particular field. At the same time, participants felt that it is important to 
explain why some well-known authors in the field and familiar theories have 
not been included in a literature review. This helps to define the parameters 
of a more focused debate, whatever the field of study. 
Justifying your research by showing that others have not 
­researched your topic or researched it in the same way (Thody 
2006: 91)
This is closely related to the question of establishing the significance of your 
research. A literature review provides you with a good opportunity to high-
light research which has not taken place, as well as projects which have been 
58  The PhD Writing Handbook
completed. A carefully constructed review can enable you to identify important 
gaps in previous research that you intend to fill as a result of your own work. 
The kind of exercise described above can act as a useful starting point 
in clarifying the expectations of your readers with respect to the literature-
review process. You will need to consider carefully the different roles and 
purposes in the case of your own research. Identifying and clarifying your 
precise aims (and rejecting others) will also help in the management of 
your research reading and the transformation of your reading into first draft 
chapter writing. 
  Alternative approaches to the literature review as 
product
In terms of the literature review as product (rather than process), there are 
also important decisions to be made. At an early stage of your research, you 
will need to consider four important questions:
• 
What kind of literature review will you need?
• 
Will you need to produce an interim as well as a final literature review?
• 
How can you ensure that your own voice is present in your literature 
review?
• 
How will you structure your literature review? 
What kind of literature review will you need?
As noted at the beginning of this chapter, the literature review can take many 
different forms within the overall structure of your thesis. If, for instance, you 
are following the ‘papers/publication’ model of PhD research, each of the 
articles built into your thesis may require a separate literature review, as is 
the case for the researcher below. Note that, interestingly, one of the papers 
in this particular example can be co-authored: 
Box 4.1. One Researcher’s Experience
I need to do three literature reviews of about 3,000 words each within my 
three papers of 12,000 words. You need to be very clear. At the same time, 
you need to read for three different things – it’s a lot of work. One literature 
review would be much easier. In this case, I need the same structure, but 
each literature review is short. For the co-authored paper we both decided 
to do the literature review, but it will be 70 per cent my responsibility. 
Producing a Literature Review  59
Even with such small numbers, there appears to be great variance within 
all disciplines except for management researchers. In areas where variance 
exists, it is not difficult to find an explanation. For example, ‘linguistics’ 
could include researchers describing structural aspects of language (gram-
marians), social aspects of language (sociolinguistics) or language learning 
At this point, it would be useful and informative to be able to present a 
comparison of types of literature review across disciplinary areas. However, 
there appear to be no definitive rules in this respect. The results of an online 
poll among a group of 16 PhD researchers in their first year of study reveal 
the following: 
Table 4.1 Literature reviews across disciplines
Disciplinary Area
Type of Literature Review
Separate Methodology 
Review?
Computer science
a)  A designated chapter beginning 
with historical background
b)  Spread over several chapters
No
Yes
History
a)  An interim literature review, 
­uncertain about the final version
b)  Part of the ­introductory chapter and 
then throughout the text
Yes
Yes
Linguistics
a)  Spread over several chapters
b)  Part of an introductory chapter
c)  One designated chapter structured 
by themes
d)  Spread over several chapters
Undecided
No
Yes
Yes
Literature
a)  An interim literature review, 
­uncertain about the final version
b)  Part of the introductory chapter
No
No
Management
a)  A designated chapter
b)  A designated chapter
Yes
Yes
Psychology
a)  A designated chapter structured by 
themes
b)  A designated chapter
c)  Separate literature reviews for 
­different research papers included 
in my thesis
Yes
No
Yes
Sociology
a)  An interim literature review, 
­uncertain about the final version
No
60  The PhD Writing Handbook
and ­teaching (psycholinguists, applied linguists). It is also clear that some 
respondents are still uncertain about some aspects of their literature review. 
The decision to include or exclude a separate ‘methodology literature 
review’ is an important one. In some disciplines, it is likely that research 
methods and procedures will be of as much interest as the findings them-
selves. Readers may carefully study the design of experiments in order to 
adopt or adapt them for their own use. In some cases, the aim could even 
be replication, the task of the reader being to identify suitable procedures so 
that they can be tried out and their merits and demerits fully discussed. 
The conclusions to be drawn are as follows:
a)	 Disciplinary norms and conventions will need to be referred to before 
you decide on your approach.
b)	 There is, however, no guarantee that there will be one well-established 
route to success within your disciplinary area. Instead, there may be 
different types of conventions for different types of projects.
c)	 In some cases, you may be free to plan the kind of literature review that 
you feel will match your research project aims; in others, a prescribed 
structure and approach may be laid down.
d)	 The question, ‘what type of literature review do I need?’ may therefore 
have no simple and straightforward answer. 
The interim literature review
In the early stages of PhD work, it is likely that you will be asked to provide 
some evidence that your research is making progress. An interim literature 
review is a good way to achieve this, as it can demonstrate the breadth 
of your reading and your ability to relate your reading to the aims of your 
research. However, this type of literature review is unlikely to be included 
in the final version of your PhD thesis as its aim is to show the progress 
of your research at a particular point in time. It represents your thinking at 
that moment and recognizes that your thinking may change before the final 
version has been produced. 
An interim literature review is also an opportunity to show how you write. 
Your supervisors (and perhaps the members of a supervisory board) are unlikely 
to have seen an example of your extended writing and will be interested to see 
whether the standard of your writing meets their expectations. So it is perhaps 
your first real opportunity to show that you can write clearly and concisely at 
the required level and your first opportunity to try to clarify your stance with 
respect to your research project. For these reasons, interim literature reviews 
are standard practice for PhD projects in many disciplinary areas. In some cases 
they may also be a requirement for upgrading from MPhil to PhD status. 
Producing a Literature Review  61
Voice in a literature review
A literature review needs to be more than just a survey of what has been 
written in a particular area. It must also contain your own presence and 
expose readers to your own voice. Dunleavy (1986: 114) refers to this as an 
‘angle’ that readers will have no difficulty in identifying. 
When producing a literature review, there is a danger that you can 
become so absorbed in what other people have to say that your own voice 
can disappear. There are psychological reasons as well as technical reasons 
for this. Subconsciously, you may feel somewhat uncomfortable in the 
company of eminent writers in the field because you believe that your own 
position must somehow be worth less than theirs. You cannot allow this to 
happen. You have to be present in any literature review that you produce, 
and prominently so. What you are conveying to the reader might be summa-
rized as follows: ‘I am not reviewing this literature in a neutral way as an 
impartial observer. I am doing this to explore themes that are relevant to my 
own research and to test the claims that I intend to put forward.’ 
Ideally, you will provide at the outset a statement of intent in relation 
to the perspective (or angle) that you intend to provide. Once identified, 
your individual approach will inform the selection of source materials that 
are discussed and the conclusions that you draw from this discussion. 
An example of how this might work is provided below: 
Box 4.2. A literature review introduction
The serialisation of The Age of Innocence did not attract as much inter-
est amongst readers and critics as the later prize-winning publication of 
the novel. The serialised work was accompanied by two types of visual 
imagery. The first kind is related to the text and may affect its reading 
and understanding. The second type comprises advertisements which 
are of a different format and style, yet its presence certainly interacts 
with the novel’s themes of perpetuating female beauty. The material 
placed within the text falls under four categories: W. B. King’s illustra-
tions, the poems with their drawings, small design elements introducing 
the text, and editorial statements. My main focus here will be on study-
ing King’s illustrations, and the societal implications behind the rela-
tionships between the characters portrayed within the context of New 
York’s changing society. I will bring to light how the illustrations provide 
a new dimension to our understanding of the novel’s embedded social, 
cultural, and economic themes. 
62  The PhD Writing Handbook
Conventions in other disciplinary areas may not allow such a strong state-
ment of intent at the very beginning of a literature review. Where it is a 
possible option, you should consider it carefully because it makes clear to 
the reader the nature of your individual approach. 
Other suggestions that may help you make your voice heard include the 
following: 
• 
exploring relevant projects and case studies in research contexts that are 
comparable to your own
• 
testing the specific research questions that you have formulated against 
what is in the literature: ‘Who has asked these questions before? With 
what results?’
• 
examining the claims you have formulated and testing them, also 
considering counterclaims and how they can be refuted
• 
justifying your research methodology in relation to other studies in the 
literature 
How will your literature review be structured?
As a first step, Hart (1998: 186–7) suggests arranging your literature review 
notes into three sections. The aims of this exercise are to clarify the purpose 
of your literature review and then identify a suitable structure:
1.	 a summary of existing work on the topic area – different approaches, 
different issues that have emerged, key terms and concepts
2.	 a critical evaluation of previous work – assessing the ‘methodologies 
and methods that have been employed previously to study the topic and 
evaluate the relative strengths and weaknesses of the literature’
3.	 general and specific conclusions about work done to date on the topic – 
identifying gaps, inconsistencies and contradictions 
As far as the structure of the literature review itself is concerned, there 
are no ready-made solutions. PhD theses in some disciplinary areas (espe-
cially in the natural sciences) may not require a lengthy literature review. 
Meanwhile, in other subject areas the literature review can occupy several 
chapters or sections of many different chapters. For some writers, there will 
be a requirement to write a separate literature review that focuses on the 
research methodology and data collection methods: for others, this kind of 
discussion can be contained in a short section of an individual chapter. 
However, it is possible to provide some general guidelines that will help 
you to find a suitable structure that is accessible to the reader. (For a more 
detailed discussion of how to build a clear structure into all PhD thesis chap-
ters, see Chapter 6.) 
Producing a Literature Review  63
Adding a short introductory section to your literature review can help 
make the individual approach that you are adopting more accessible to the 
reader. Explain how your own research questions will influence the content 
of the review and its structure. 
The definition and exploration of key concepts will be a necessary 
element in the early sections of the review. In the arts/humanities and in 
social science subject areas, most literature-review chapters seek to engage 
in a debate which involves ‘contested concepts’ where multiple interpreta-
tions are possible. It is important to clarify your own understanding of such 
concepts from the very beginning to prevent possible miscommunication 
with your readers. Chapter 5 will discuss in greater detail the issues and the 
skills involved.
A thematic organization provides the structural framework for many 
literature reviews. Your own research questions or the findings of other 
writers can help you identify the important themes that need to be explored. 
Alternative ways of structuring the main body of the literature review might 
be chronological (providing a descriptive account of the relevant litera-
ture), ‘problem-solution’ (focusing on questions asked by other researchers 
followed by their findings) or according to theoretical frameworks (compar-
ing different ways of explaining the phenomena that are of interest). See Hart 
(1998) for further examples of frameworks. 
A short concluding section will help you pull together the different 
strands of the debate, summarize your main conclusions and provide a link 
to the following chapters of your thesis. 
  Literature review problem areas
Two of the most significant problem areas in producing a successful PhD 
level literature review have been discussed in detail in Chapter 3, namely 
the difficulty involved in developing suitable selection criteria for reading 
and the importance of leaving your tracks to enable you to reconnect with 
your thinking at some point in the future. It is now worth considering 
some additional problem areas experienced by PhD writers. Uncertainty 
concerning these points can severely disrupt the process of engaging with 
the literature and producing a review that matches the expectations of 
readers. 
Who are the main readers?
This is a source of confusion for many PhD writers. Are you writing for 
­examiners, for supervisory boards that are set up to monitor your progress, 
for your supervisors or for a wider public? For an interim literature review, 
64  The PhD Writing Handbook
the answer is relatively straightforward – the target readers are most 
­probably the members of a supervisory board. 
For the final literature review, the situation is more complex. Clearly, 
writers following the ‘by papers model’ of the PhD will aim to publish their 
work to as wide a readership as possible. They might intend to publish indi-
vidual research papers or a book that combines these papers on a related 
theme. For most other writers, the expectation should also be that the 
thesis will eventually be read by a wider community rather than two PhD 
­examiners. In the first instance, however, the most important readers will be 
the examiners themselves. As it is unlikely that you will know both external 
and internal examiners well, you will need to try to put yourself in their posi-
tion as readers. What will be their main expectations? What problems might 
they experience when engaging with your completed text? Which aspects 
of your work will you need to take particular care in explaining? It is worth 
noting that these are also useful questions to consider when preparing for 
the final viva. 
How much information do you need to provide?
How far should you spell things out? To what extent should you assume 
knowledge on the part of the reader? This is a sensitive area for many 
people. Inexperienced research writers can worry that readers will feel 
patronized if they are provided with information that is already familiar to 
them. To prevent this from happening, the safe option appears to be to avoid 
spelling things out and to assume that readers will be at least as knowledge-
able as you are. 
The consequences of such an approach may be serious if your text 
becomes less accessible to your reader as a result. It is easy to overestimate 
what your readers know and to underestimate your own knowledge in what 
will become your own specialist area. As a reader, I am not usually offended 
by being asked to read something that I already know: if this is not of inter-
est, I can skip to the next section of the text. However, if I cannot understand 
a series of references because of my own lack of knowledge, I will have no 
means of addressing this gap unless I seek outside solutions. 
This approach makes another assumption that is worth contesting, 
namely that examiners and other readers give equal merit to every word and 
every sentence of your text. This is not the case. Examiners are experienced 
writers and readers, who may have a preferred method of engaging with a 
text. Examiner A might decide not to start at the beginning of your work but 
go straight to the results or the conclusions. Earlier sections of your text may 
be skipped through quickly if this type of reader recognizes familiar territory. 
Whereas Examiner B may think ‘I do not know this area particularly well. 
Producing a Literature Review  65
I will need to read this background information quite carefully’ and read your 
chapters in their intended order, paying equal attention to all of them. 
It is perhaps natural to worry about treating our readers as unintelligent 
beings who need to have everything explained. Luckily, there are some prac-
tical solutions available to you: 
1.	 Provide explicit signposts in the text that state explicitly that you intend to 
make a short digression to explain your ideas more carefully. The reader 
who has no need of the digression will skip the section and go on.
2.	 Make use of footnotes, provided that disciplinary conventions allow this. 
As footnotes are separate from the text, they provide a suitable means of 
including information that some readers will need while others will not.
3.	 Make use of appendices as a source of reference. You can provide a more 
detailed explanation for some readers in an appendix and refer to it.
4.	 If you are uncertain how much information to include, remember the old 
maxim: When in doubt, spell it out. 
How can you be knowledgeable and avoid being derivative?
Literature reviews are strong if the writer is very knowledgeable. But most 
students start off not knowing a lot, so they are learning while they are 
reading. So at the beginning you are strongly influenced by what people are 
saying, but by the end you can discuss things in depth. (1st-year PhD student)
Even when you are beginning to formulate your research questions and to 
define the parameters of your research, you should have a view. You may 
believe that it is not a particularly well-formed view and that you may soon 
go in a different direction, but it still needs to be recorded and to be valued. 
Later, you may find yourself returning to it. In the meantime, how can you be 
confident that your point of view can be defended? 
A useful approach when planning a literature review is to seek out 
apparent inconsistencies or ideas which do not seem to have been fully 
developed or explained by other writers. Whether they appear as small gaps 
in knowledge or areas of ambiguity, these can be your focus. You will care-
fully consider the opinions and theories put forward by other writers, and 
then you will offer your own. In many arts, humanities and social sciences 
disciplines, writers can exploit ‘grey areas’ in this way. At a later stage, you 
may reject what you have written or (to your surprise) may realize that it 
still retains its value. If you have reason to believe that you can no longer be 
confident in a particular point of view, then you can change it. No literature 
review can be expected to act as a definitive statement. Instead, it is useful to 
consider it as a means of mapping the progress of your thinking. 
66  The PhD Writing Handbook
If you ask your supervisor or any other academic what they think of 
their first ever published article or piece of writing, you will receive a mixed 
response. One person may refuse even to provide you with the reference, 
while another will say: ‘When I go back to it, I’m actually quite pleased with 
it. I think it isn’t so bad after all’. Some writers mature slowly, while others 
provide their best work at the beginning of their careers. The lesson is that 
you need to be as confident as you can be in your first attempt at formulating 
your own point of view until evidence shows that you need to revise it. 
Task 4.1: Self-evaluation
1.	 What type of literature review do you need for your PhD thesis?
2.	 Will you also need to write an interim literature review? What are the 
requirements for this?
3.	 Will there be a separate literature review for your research 
­methodology?
4.	 What steps will you follow to assemble the relevant literature?
5.	 How will you record what you have read?
6.	 How will you integrate your reading notes into the literature review?
7.	 What will be your preferred structure?
1.	 Consider the role of the literature review in your own research project. 
In consultation with a supervisor, specify your aims.
2.	Decide how the literature review will fit into your finished thesis. 
Will it occupy a single chapter or be spread across chapters? Will you 
need a separate literature review to support your research design and 
­methodology?
3.	Plan and write an interim literature review as your first substantial piece 
of doctoral level written work.
4.	For any kind of literature review, consider how you will include your own 
voice and make it distinct from the voices of other writers.
5.	Consider alternative structures for the final literature review, and select 
the one that seems appropriate for your project.
6.	Carefully craft an introduction to your literature review that will enable 
your readers to identify your individual approach or ‘angle’. Decide how 
much contextual information needs to be included or excluded within 
your review. Clearly signpost any contextual digressions.
Action Points
67
5 Exploring Key Concepts
This chapter
• 
considers the importance of exploring and developing key concepts 
during the early stages of PhD research
• 
argues that a mix of lateral and linear thinking is needed to help 
researchers examine connections between key concepts, thus contrib-
uting to the production of new theories
• 
outlines the main stages in concept exploration and development
• 
provides guidelines for concept definition and development in writing 
  The importance of concept development within 
a research project
It is difficult to imagine attempting a literature review of any sort without 
exploring the key concepts embedded in the research topic, research ques-
tions, claims or hypotheses. The reason for this is clear: if you as the writer 
assume that the reader will understand complex concepts in a certain way, 
your assumption might be correct or it might be wrong. It is necessary to 
spell out precisely what it is that you mean by such terms in the particular 
context in which you are writing. However, this cannot normally be achieved 
by means of a simple dictionary-type definition. You can attempt to do this, 
but the chances of failure are high. What needs to be done instead is to care-
fully unpack and explore the concept in question. The process begins with 
reading to see if there is agreement concerning the meaning of a particular 
concept within your field. An examination of the literature in your field may 
indicate that multiple interpretations are possible. Outside a single discipli-
nary area, there may be an even greater variety for you to consider. 
Your ultimate aim will be to include a section or sections within the litera-
ture review or elsewhere in the thesis in which definitions of your key concepts 
are carefully explored. This is not just a glossary or list of terms where an 
68  The PhD Writing Handbook
explanatory sentence or two is added to each item. For certain terms, an entry 
in a separate glossary may suffice, but for complex key concepts with multiple 
possible interpretations, something more will be required. 
Which concepts will you need to explore and develop most carefully? The 
answer will become apparent only as your research progresses, but you will 
certainly need to consider the following in relation to your research:
• 
concepts that feature prominently in research questions or claims
• 
concepts that are relatively new or unfamiliar to readers in your field
• 
concepts that appear to be unstable or fluid
• 
concepts that appear to be contested by certain writers 
Concept fluidity
Before discussing the steps involved in the exploration of key concepts, it is 
useful to consider a few examples that will illustrate the potential for insta-
bility or fluidity in meanings. Where dictionary definitions are provided, they 
are taken from the Collins English Dictionary (See Appendix 1). 
Intelligence: ‘the capacity for understanding; ability to perceive and 
comprehend meaning; good mental capacity’. 
If you start adding some extra elements to this particular concept, the 
range of its possible meanings can become more complex. A good example 
has been provided by Goleman (1996), who questions the assumption that 
the term ‘intelligence’ must necessarily refer to cognitive processes and 
abilities. A new concept, that of ‘emotional intelligence’ was created along 
with a series of theories related to the concept. Goleman argues that what 
he calls emotional intelligence is an important human attribute, enabling a 
person to relate to other people, to relate to social situations and above all 
to cope with the psychological effects of failure. Thus the concept of ‘intel-
ligence’ has been extended by one writer in an unexpected direction. Other 
writers have followed Goleman’s example with the result that there is now 
a shared understanding of it. Acceptance is, however, not unanimous: the 
concept remains contested. 
Autonomy: ‘the right or state of self-government; freedom to determine 
one’s own actions or behaviours’. 
The dictionary indicates that this concept is a familiar one in a political 
context (autonomous states, autonomous republics) and its meaning closely 
aligns with that of ‘self-governance’. In other contexts, however, it appears 
to have slightly different connotations when certain additions are made. 
In education, ‘learner autonomy’ is an example of a contested concept which 
Exploring Key Concepts  69
is sometimes contrasted with ‘learner independence’. For some writers in 
the field, the two terms are interchangeable, while for others there is a clear 
distinction between the two. Benson and Voller (1997) have produced a book 
on this subject, the first chapter of which is devoted to a discussion on why 
there is so much disagreement concerning these two concepts (or single 
concept, depending on your point of view). 
Tradition: ‘the handing down from generation to generation of the same 
customs, beliefs; a specific custom or practice of long standing’. 
The concept seems to be neutral at first glance, but once it is altered 
slightly and the adjectival form ‘traditional’ is used, it can be contrasted with 
‘modern’ and a pejorative meaning emerges. As soon as we begin to manip-
ulate such concepts, their fluidity and ability to change meaning become 
apparent. It is clearly a useful step to consider both concept pairs (autonomy 
vs independence) and derived forms (tradition vs traditional). In the case of 
pairs, we sometimes find that a clear distinction is generally accepted and 
agreed on, as in the final example: 
Tax avoidance vs tax evasion: ‘reduction or minimization of tax liability 
by lawful methods’ vs ‘reduction or minimization of tax liability by illegal 
methods’.
Here, there is a clearly defined difference in meaning. The former is seen 
to be perfectly legal (though arguably immoral), while the latter is illegal 
because it involves deliberate falsification of information. It appears that 
two common words (‘avoidance’ and ‘evasion’), often used interchangeably 
without the addition of ‘tax’, have evolved recognizably distinct meanings 
when the ‘tax’ label is added. 
  The starting point for concept exploration
We can begin to explore concepts based on our own experience or intuitive 
understanding, but this is likely to be problematic, as demonstrated in the 
examples given below. Another possible approach (as discussed above) 
might be to rely on dictionary definitions. These, however, are likely to be 
insufficient for our purposes except in the case of technical concepts with a 
clearly defined single meaning agreed on by all. In the arts, humanities and 
social sciences, such concepts are comparatively rare. 
Before committing yourself to a particular definition of a concept, you 
will need to consider all the alternatives. Consider for example, these initial 
attempts by a group of PhD students at defining two concepts that are 
supposedly related – ‘cooperation’ and ‘altruism’. 
70  The PhD Writing Handbook
In any such definition, you will need to question and even challenge the 
assumptions that appear to be built into each of its component parts. In this 
case, there seem to be two assumptions. 
Assumption 1: ‘cooperation is always for a common purpose or goal’
This is not difficult to challenge. Consider, for example, political alliances 
where countries decide to cooperate with each other. It is possible that their 
goals might be shared (for example, to defeat a common enemy); it is equally 
likely, however, that they may have completely different agendas.
Assumption 2: ‘cooperation usually involves reciprocity’
This is less easy to challenge, but also debatable. There is no evidence to 
suggest that cooperation is shared more or less equally by two cooperating 
partners. In the case of forced cooperation, it is arguable that one partner 
is more likely to demonstrate active cooperative behaviour. Such problems 
extend to the definition of the supposedly related concept of ‘altruism’:
Box 5.1. Definition of ‘cooperation’
Cooperation is a broad category that refers to any interaction or joint action 
for a common purpose or goal. Cooperation is pervasive in the natural 
world, as well as in human society. It usually involves reciprocity and 
common benefits, but it can also involve (and it often does involve) altruism. 
Box 5.2. Definition of ‘altruism’
There is a remarkable lack of precise agreement over what is meant by 
the term. It is often used interchangeably with giving, sharing, coop-
erating, helping and different forms of other-directed and prosocial 
behaviour. But in general, altruism could be defined as a particular form 
of cooperative behaviour for the benefit of another, and which might 
involve some form of sacrifice to the altruist.
The concept of altruism is notoriously difficult to explore. Arguably, it may 
not exist in a pure form, since the altruist will usually gain some credit or 
benefits for his/her actions. It is also possible that the reputational gain 
experienced by the ‘altruist’ may sometimes outweigh the material gain of 
Exploring Key Concepts  71
the receiver of an altruistic act. The reputation of the biblical Good Samaritan 
remains while the details of his good deeds may be forgotten.
Consider also intuitive interpretations of three other problematic concepts 
and the supposed relationship between them: ‘values’, ‘beliefs’ and ‘attitudes’. 
An intuitive understanding might place ‘values’ at the deepest level. One 
example could be embedded and shared ‘cultural values’ which may not 
even be apparent at a conscious level. These in turn might influence the 
formulation of ‘beliefs’ nurtured by individuals. Such beliefs can then mani-
fest themselves as ‘attitudes’, which in turn can inform ‘behaviour’.
One way to test this supposed relationship might be to conduct an 
‘images’ Internet search. In this particular case, there are diagrams readily 
available that provide a visual representation of the relationship between 
these concepts. However, it soon becomes evident that some of these 
present a different interpretation, with ‘beliefs’ leading to ‘values’ rather than 
the other way round. See Appendix 1 for one example.
Considering alternative representations of the relationship between 
concepts can produce examples such as these. The next step might be to 
produce a simplified diagram to summarize your own views at this stage of 
your exploration: 
Behaviours
Attitudes
Cultural or Personal Values
Deep-seated Beliefs
Fig 5.1 A concept pyramid 
Other ways of beginning the process of concept exploration might include
• 
starting with a definition provided by a well-known writer in a seminal 
text. This could begin a debate in which you can present the points of 
view of other writers 
72  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
considering concepts in pairs or in groups, where you can begin to see 
meanings in relation to interpretations of related concepts. Examples 
already given in this chapter include ‘tax avoidance’ vs ‘tax evasion’ and 
‘independence’ compared to ‘autonomy’
• 
breaking down different meanings either by additions (for example 
‘learner’ added to ‘autonomy’, ‘emotional’ added to ‘intelligence’, 
‘liberal’ added to ‘democracy’) or by changing the form of the concept 
itself (‘traditional’ considered alongside ‘tradition’, ‘modernism’ when 
compared to ‘modern’) 
  The process of concept exploration: the next steps
When a concept such as ‘altruism’ is carefully examined, we begin to realize 
how fluid it is in terms of its ability to change meaning when transposed 
from one specific context to another. Building credit for oneself by means of 
altruistic acts in (for example) the context of religious beliefs and practices 
can seem the exact opposite of an intuitive understanding of altruism itself. 
A definition of such a difficult concept would have to be reached at the 
end of a process of exploration rather than at the beginning. In between, it is 
necessary to work slowly and carefully through the following steps:
1.	 Understand the different interpretations of key terms through your 
reading.
2.	 Clarify different meanings and interpretations in your notes.
3.	 Communicate these meanings to others through your writing so that you 
can share your chosen interpretation and at the same time justify it. 
This process has to begin in the early stages of PhD work. It is essential 
that you clarify meanings in your own mind before you begin to use key 
concepts as part of theory construction. As suggested by Dunleavy (1986), 
it is difficult to achieve this only in a linear way: ‘lateral’ or nonlinear think-
ing is also required. Lateral thinking, popularized by De Bono (1970), allows 
you to make new associations between concepts that seem familiar but can 
be subjected to questioning to reveal the assumptions that underlie them. 
The idea is that we begin to see these concepts and the connections between 
them in a different way: this enables us to make new connections and to 
construct new theories on the basis of which claims can be formulated. 
To illustrate the importance of examining the relation between concepts 
as part of theory construction and to see how this can work powerfully in 
practice, consider a traditional puzzle that I learnt at school over 50 years 
ago (origin unknown): 
Exploring Key Concepts  73
How can this series of apparently illogical events be explained so that it 
makes sense? A number of different theories may be possible. To enable us 
to construct them, we will need to ask questions such as: 
• 
Why does this woman want a glass of water?
• 
Why does the barman respond by pulling out a gun?
• 
Why does the woman thank him? 
To find alternative answers to our questions, concepts such as ‘bar’, ‘glass of 
water’, ‘gun’, ‘barman’, ‘thank’ will need to be carefully examined by asking 
more detailed questions: 
• 
Is the gun real? Or a toy gun?
• 
Is this really a bar or has the unfortunate woman lost her way?
• 
Do the woman and the barman know each other well enough to play a 
practical joke of some kind on each other? 
By trial and error, we may be able to create a number of theories that will 
account for the sequence of events and connect them together logically by 
means of some lateral thinking. Here are some possibilities: 
1.	 The gun is in fact a water pistol which the barman squirts at the woman.
2.	 The barman pulls out a special kind of gun that dispenses soft drinks, 
points it at her and asks if she would like a glass.
3.	 The woman has hiccups and believes that drinking water will cure them. 
The barman decides to frighten her by pointing the gun. This works 
equally well. 
The ‘correct answer’ to the puzzle is, of course, theory 3. However, the 
others have certain merits in providing a meaningful interpretation of the 
events. The point to recognize is that on the surface the events cannot 
make sense if we make the most reasonably intuitive assumptions avail-
able (for example, believing that she asks for water because she is thirsty or 
that the barman pulls out a gun in order to threaten her). Lateral thinking 
Box 5.3. Lateral thinking puzzle 1
A woman walks into a bar and asks for a glass of water. The barman 
pulls out a gun and points it at her. The woman thanks him and leaves. 
74  The PhD Writing Handbook
How can you explain this series of events? Questions to ask might include: 
• 
Why does the man make a phone call in the middle of the night?
• 
Why does he smile and hang up as soon as someone answers? 
Try out different theories that will adequately explain the sequence of events. 
Lateral thinking can also be applied to reading where, as noted 
in Chapter  3, we often attempt to detect inconsistencies or flaws in 
­argumentation, missing pieces of evidence or evidence that appears to be 
contradictory. Thinking laterally will allow us to consider other theories that 
might be generated using the same evidence (‘what if …’). 
For many people the problem of engaging in lateral thinking exercises 
is simple: it requires the suspension of linear thinking. Smart (2013: 12) in 
Autopilot: The Art and Science of Doing Nothing argues that nonlinearity is 
an essential function of the brain, but one that we systematically repress by 
engaging in too much planned mental activity: 
Allowing the brain to rest opens the system to exploiting these mechanisms 
of nonlinearity and randomness, and amplifies the brain’s natural tendency 
to combine percepts and memories into new concepts. Anecdotal evidence 
from writers and artists, as well as recent psychological studies, leads to the 
understanding that in order to really tap the creative potential of the brain, 
a complex nonlinear system, we should allow ourselves long, uninterrupted 
periods of idleness. 
The premise of Smart’s book is that mental activity actually increases during 
periods of apparent idleness. In order to allow lateral thinking techniques to 
have an effect, linear thinking will need to be temporarily suspended. 
For further practice in exploiting the nonlinearity of the brain, I recom-
mend lateral thinking puzzles and exercises presented in quiz programmes 
such as the BBC’s Only Connect (see Appendix 1). In this programme, an 
enables us to try out alternative explanations by re-examining such assump-
tions and the connections between the different events. 
Here is another puzzle for you to try out: 
Box 5.4. Lateral thinking puzzle 2
In the middle of the night, a man picks up a telephone and dials a 
number. As soon as someone answers, he smiles and hangs up. 
Exploring Key Concepts  75
exercise entitled ‘the wall’ requires contestants to find links between differ-
ent concepts. There are 16 concepts that have to be organized into four sets 
with distractors that may appear to belong to one set, but if interpreted in a 
slightly different way belong to another. Sometimes to make an association 
it is necessary to apply a different kind of logic, as in the following example 
where the underlined portion of the word would provide a numerical clue: 
Weight
Network
Cone
Feminine 
Consider also the following, linked together only by the addition of the word 
‘social’: 
Security
Services
Media
Issues
Contestants in such programmes demonstrate that it is possible to develop 
to a high degree the skills required to make such nonlinear connections. 
For many others, finding lateral connections will be a demanding mental 
­exercise. 
  Other ways of exploring concepts through lateral 
thinking
Dunleavy (1986) recommends using other lateral thinking techniques to 
establish connections, construct new theories and even formulate entirely 
new concepts. 
Finding antonyms
To explore what a concept might mean, one approach could be to consider 
what it is not. Sometimes this can make clear patterns of meaning that are 
hard to find in a linear fashion. Thus, in order to explore the range of possi-
ble meanings for ‘racism’, it may be possible to focus on a precise definition 
by considering what an absence of this concept might mean. 
• 
Tolerance would equate ‘racism’ with ‘intolerance’
• 
Inclusivity would imply ‘exclusion’
• 
Cosmopolitanism would imply ‘parochialism’
• 
Broad-mindedness would imply ‘narrow-mindedness’ 
Placing concepts on a scale
To prevent ‘false dichotomies’, which may arise from considering opposing 
concepts, it may be useful to attempt to locate key concepts within a scale or 
76  The PhD Writing Handbook
Exploring concept associations
Consider these possible additions to ‘culture’ and the changes that they 
might bring to the more basic concept: 
High culture
Popular culture
Folk culture
Youth culture
National culture
Organizational culture
Exploring concept derivations
Comparing and contrasting slight variations of the phrasing of a particular 
concept can help clarify the specific context in which each is used. Here is 
an example:
Nation
Nationality
Nationalism
Nationalist
Internationalism
Nationalization 
Examining degrees of separation between different concepts
It can often be useful to examine the exact relationship (in terms of separa-
tion) of pairs of concepts which are clearly related in some way. Concepts 
can be quite separate from each other or can overlap in some way, or one 
concept can wholly include another. Finally, concepts can be considered 
identical if there is only one area of meaning to be established. 
continuum. For example, in the example below it would be interesting to discuss 
the placement of ‘absolute monarchy’ and ‘constitutional monarchy’ on the 
continuum. The ‘end point’ concepts would also need to be carefully ­considered: 
are they in fact two extremes, or do other concepts need to be added? 
DICTATORSHIP
DEMOCRACY
Fig 5.2 Degrees of separation between concepts 
A
B
B
A
A
B
Exploring Key Concepts  77
  Exploring concepts in writing
When concepts are problematic and in particular when they appear to be 
contested by different writers, a careful written exploration will be required. 
Within a literature review, it is possible that an entire section may need to 
be dedicated to concept exploration and subsequent definition. Similarly, in 
individual research papers an introductory section focusing on key concepts 
may be required. 
An example of ‘good practice’ in this respect is reproduced below. 
The key concept in question (the ‘speech community’) is contested by some 
authors in the field. The aim of the research paper is to argue the case in 
favour of this concept: 
The speech community is the locus of most sociolinguistic and 
­anthropological-linguistic research, indeed all linguistic research that is 
accountable to a body of naturally-occurring speech or signed data. It 
­represents the social boundaries within which analysts locate, and seek to 
describe and account for, language variation and change, ways of speaking, 
and patterns of choice in a linguistic repertoire. It is thus on a par with other 
basic notions such as ‘language’, ‘dialect’ or ‘grammar’ as a primary object 
of description and theorizing in our discipline. Like these notions, it is both 
central and elusive, with definitions frequently offered and even more often 
called into question – one of those ideas linguists cannot agree on amongst 
ourselves, and appear to remain happily ambivalent about, while referring to 
it in textbooks and introductory lectures as though its nature were quite well 
understood. (Patrick 1998) 
After this basic definition, the author guides us through the development of 
the concept by means of the following steps: 
• 
origins of the concept
• 
how the concept has developed over time
• 
a key definition from a well-known author in the field
• 
reactions to this definition (both extreme and more moderate)
• 
the author’s definition in response to all of the above
Task 5.1: Unpacking concept pairs
How would you describe the relationship between the concepts of 
­‘method’ and ‘methodology’ in a research context? Which of the dia-
grams in Fig 5.2 (based on those created by Dunleavy (1986)) might best 
represent this relationship? 
78  The PhD Writing Handbook
Concept development in written text requires a clear structure and direction. 
A step-by-step approach towards establishing a preferred definition guides 
the reader and helps justify the author’s perspective. Over a period of time 
academic writers can fully develop their analysis of contested concepts, as 
has happened in this particular case. See, for example, Patrick (2002: 573–97) 
for a more extensive treatment of the concept leading to the conclusion that 
it still remains ‘fraught with difficulties’. 
For further consideration of different ways in which concepts may be 
developed in writing, we return to the Nelson and Lamboll 2012 text on 
‘Climate Change’ briefly discussed in Chapter  3. The aim of this paper is 
to establish relationships between ‘Climate Change’, ‘Agriculture’ and 
‘Development’, three problematic concepts that will need to be explored in 
a number of ways. Two examples are a consideration of ‘sustainable’ versus 
‘non-sustainable agriculture’, and ‘mitigation’ versus ‘adaptation strategies’ 
for dealing with climate change. 
One interesting aspect of the paper is that it presents three distinct modes 
of concept exploration: 
1.	 continuous text
2.	 a diagram linking three key concepts laterally
3.	 a table which summarizes and compares sample definitions of key 
concepts 
Finally, in addition to individual texts which can present models of ‘good 
practice’, there are some readily available sources of inspiration for strug-
gling writers in the form of ‘concept development’ guides. These generally 
consist of short essays which aim to explore concepts that resist straight-
forward definition. Usually, they relate to interpretations of concepts in one 
specific disciplinary area. Occasionally, however, they span several related 
fields of study. 
Perhaps the best-known example of the latter category is Raymond 
Williams’ ‘Keywords’, first published in 1976. In his introduction to the book, 
Williams described his experiences of returning to Britain from army service 
and discovering changes in attitudes that seemed to result in changes in the 
way language was used to express ideas. In particular, the different interpre-
tations of the word ‘culture’ interested him. He noted that he had previously 
understood the concept in two ways, either as ‘the preferred word for a kind 
of social superiority’ or as an overall descriptive label that referred to the 
creation and appreciation of novels, poetry, plays and paintings. However, 
new uses of the word appeared to be emerging, most notably the idea of 
culture as ‘a particular way of life’. 
Exploring Key Concepts  79
Williams recognized the fluidity of such broad concepts and decided 
to analyse their development through Keywords. In the entry for ‘culture’ 
he guides us through the agricultural origins of the word to more recent 
interpretations. This process of unpacking meanings is repeated for other 
concepts, including ‘art’, society’, ‘history’, ‘management’ and more than 
one hundred others. 
There is now a huge range of similar ‘concept guides’ available as works 
of reference. Such sources can be a useful support for concept explora-
tion, but they are not intended as a substitute for thinking or meant to be 
pasted into a text as pieces of ready-made analysis. Instead, they can help 
to broaden your interpretations of concepts that are central to your own 
research and perhaps even show the way towards the development of new 
variants.
1.	 Identify the key concepts that you will need to explore as part of your 
research.
2.	Begin the process of exploration by comparing and contrasting them 
with similar concepts. To what extent do meanings overlap?
3.	Avoid intuitive or dictionary-type definitions of key concepts at the begin-
ning of the process of exploration.
4.	Single out any contested concepts for more careful consideration.
5.	Use lateral thinking techniques to establish new or unfamiliar connec-
tions between key concepts.
6.	Within a literature review, prepare a structured exploration of the key 
concepts that readers will need to understand. Justify your own interpre-
tation through carefully considered arguments.
Action Points
80
6 Building a Structured 
Chapter Framework
This chapter
• 
considers the importance of the table of contents and the abstract as 
tools for mapping out the structure of a doctoral thesis
• 
argues that a clear structure is also dependent on the formulation of 
chapter and chapter section headings and subheadings
• 
explores the role of signposting devices that guide the reader, making 
the text more accessible
• 
examines the characteristics of different types of chapters within a 
thesis
• 
considers the need for well-crafted introductory and concluding 
sections within individual thesis chapters 
  Producing an overall framework
The table of contents and abstract
At a certain point during the first year of research, it is likely that your 
general approach to writing will begin to change. Developing the research 
topic, managing reading and generating research questions will gradually 
give way to a consideration of what the written end product is going to 
look like. You will start thinking in terms of chapters, and you will begin to 
consider your readers and their expectations. 
PhD supervisors often ask for a rough overview of intended chapters during 
the early stages, but your initial reaction may be that you do not feel ready to 
provide this. There are understandable reasons for this reaction. Before you 
can define the end product, you will first need to consider the scope and the 
parameters of your research: however, at this stage you may have more ques-
tions than answers in this respect. Whatever you do in terms of trying to plan 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  81
your writing, you will need to be aware that your thinking and therefore your 
planning will inevitably change as your research progresses. 
Before you begin to plan your writing, you will also need to think in very 
general terms about the task that lies ahead. It is possible that this could be 
the longest piece of writing that you will ever attempt, and one key area of 
difficulty is the requirement for overall coherence. You will need to develop 
arguments that readers can follow without getting lost throughout a lengthy 
text. Meanwhile, you will also need to prevent yourself from losing your way 
as you gradually and painstakingly construct this text. Ensuring that coher-
ence is maintained will eventually be achieved in different ways (some of 
which will be discussed in detail in Chapter 8). At this initial stage of chapter 
writing, the first step will be to focus on a draft structural framework. 
Such a framework will need to help you ‘manage the expectations of 
readers’, in the words of Dunleavy (2003). It will be necessary to consider 
disciplinary writing conventions, what is expected or proscribed and whether 
you are going to satisfy those expectations. If you decide that you need to 
ignore or contravene conventions in any way, you will need to provide clear 
explanations or justifications to readers whose expectations are not being 
met. For example, if your readers expect a designated methodology chapter 
and your thesis structure does not contain one, you will need to manage this 
situation carefully. 
A clear table of contents is the first means of achieving structural clarity. 
Tables of contents create expectations in readers’ minds, which the sections 
of your chapters then need to match. If you write a table of contents which 
does not seem entirely relevant to the finished text, readers may become 
frustrated. Before they start to look at your work in detail, they will consult 
your table of contents in the expectation that it will provide a clear map 
of what they are about to read. An example of a first attempt at a table of 
contents is given below. 
Box 6.1 A first draft table of contents
Buddhist minorities in India: a Human Rights perspective and its legal 
­implications 
Chapter 1: Introduction
1.1.  Wider context
1.2.  The analytical framework
1.3.  Main aims of this thesis
1.4.  The structure
1.5.  Caveats 
➔
82  The PhD Writing Handbook
Chapter 2: Human Rights Perspective
2.1.  Definition of ‘minorities’
2.2.  Buddhist minorities in India – a postmodern existence
2.3.  Significance of their existence
2.4.  Right against discrimination
2.5.  Right to profess and practise one’s own religion
2.6.  Concoction and camouflaging of the religious sites
Chapter 3: Case Study – the Bodhgaya Temple
3.1.  Introduction
3.2.  History and importance of the Bodhgaya Temple
3.3.  The Bodhgaya Temple Management Act 1949
3.4.  Violation of articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India
3.5.  Struggle for its emancipation
Chapter 4: Historical Background
4.1.  Historicity of India
4.2.  The terms ‘Hindu’ and ‘Hinduism’
4.3.  Pre-eminence of Buddhism prior to the advent of Muslims in India
4.4.  When, why and how Buddhism disappeared in India
4.5.  Co-option of Buddhism into Brahmanism
4.6.  Rediscovery of Buddhism by the British
4.7.  Concerns of minorities during the British Raj
4.8.  Buddhism in South Asia
4.9.  Revival of Buddhism in India
4.10.    Present state
Chapter 5: Constitutional and Legislative Issues
5.1.  Development of Constitutional Law in India vis-à-vis the minorities
5.2.  Issues of minorities and the Constituent Assembly Debates
5.3.  Article 25 of the Constitution of India
5.4.  Reflection of Article 25 in other legislative instruments
5.5.  The Hindu code and its ‘Hindu’ hegemony
5.6.  Debates regarding the ‘Application of Acts’ of the Hindu Code
5.7.  Legal pluralism and informality
5.8.  Issue of Uniform Civil Code
Chapter 6: Judicial Interpretation and Institutional Responses
6.1.  Case-laws on the term ‘Hindu’ and on article 25 of the Constitution 
of India
6.2.  Case-laws on the issues of Buddhist minorities
6.3.  Juristic writings
➔
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  83
Overall, this has to be considered a worthy first attempt to structure chapters 
which have yet to be written. The writer appears to have a clear idea of the 
structure of later chapters as well as earlier chapters of the thesis, which is 
unusual. Arguably, however, the draft structure contains several features 
that will seem unexpected or ambiguous to a reader:
1.	 The order of chapters seems counterintuitive with the ‘historical back-
ground’ chapter placed in the middle of the structure rather than at the 
beginning.
2.	 Readers might also reasonably expect the Chapter 3 case study to 
come later in the sequence after the chapters which appear to be more 
­theoretical.
3.	 There is no mention of research methodology or data collection methods 
in the structure. While ‘methodology’ might not merit a whole chapter, 
there is a reasonable expectation that a chapter section might be given 
this label.
4.	 There are apparent sources of ambiguity in chapter section labels.
5.	 A new concept, ‘vulnerability during transition’, appears for the first time 
in the last chapter. 
6.4.  Overlapping 
vagueness 
in 
between 
‘Reconstruction’ 
and 
‘Deconstruction’
6.5.  Executive actions
6.6.  Issue of reservations
6.7.  Media
6.8.  Voluntary organizations
6.9.  Academia and experts
6.10.    Religious institutions
6.11.    International concerns
Chapter 7: Problems within the Community
7.1.  Vulnerable existence
7.2.  Undeveloped rituals and religious practices
7.3.  Search of alternative roots
7.4.  Status gained in sociocultural perspective
7.5.  Lack of cohesion within the community
Chapter 8: Conclusion
8.1.  Identity, status and existence: claimed and gained
8.2.  Vulnerability during transition 
84  The PhD Writing Handbook
Questions or criticisms should be expected after your first attempt. This is 
work in progress, with your structure likely to be modified many times before 
reaching its finalized version. 
Although the formulation of a chapter framework may seem premature 
during the early stages of research, there is another useful purpose for creating 
it. A draft table of contents such as this one can act as a useful mediation docu-
ment between yourself, your supervisors and other potential readers. The type 
of feedback points listed above could provide a significant means of helping 
you clarify your own thinking. A draft table of contents is a useful document 
both for your readers and yourself – the end product of an important writing 
exercise which needs to take place during the early stages of your research. 
Producing a first version of your research abstract to accompany the table 
of contents is also a useful goal. Below is one part of an abstract produced by 
the writer of the sample table of contents: 
Box 6.2. A first draft abstract
Buddhist minorities in India: a Human Rights perspective and its legal 
implications
This thesis aims to investigate and explore the vulnerable identity, status 
and existence of the Buddhist minorities in India, which have been consist-
ently subjected to the tendencies of subsumption by the ‘majority’, on the 
pretext of constructed legal uniformities and in the guise of misinterpreted 
mythic historical argumentations. The majority itself was largely oligar-
chic in its character until recent times and continues to remain stratified; 
thereby it does not subscribe to the true and well-informed responses of 
all its components. It is argued that the state of reality vis-à-vis the iden-
tity, status and existence of the Buddhist minorities should not be subser-
vient to an all-embracing and precarious entity termed as ‘Hindu’. 
The central questions to be answered by the current research are: 
when, why and how were the identity and status of the Buddhist ­minorities 
incorporated into the Indian legal framework, and how is that ‘process’ 
undermining their existence in terms of human rights ­principles? 
The final version of your abstract will be an important document. It is the 
gateway to your research, the first piece of your writing that readers are 
likely to see. Potential readers may decide on the basis of the abstract 
whether they will read your thesis or not. 
A first draft abstract acts as a rationale for your research. As in the 
above example, it will normally specify research aims or focus and the main 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  85
research questions. It could also include an outline of your methodology and 
a consideration of the significance of your research. You will need to write 
multiple versions of the abstract, updating it as your research progresses. 
Like the table of contents, it can provide a useful point of reference to help 
focus discussions with supervisors and other potential readers of your thesis. 
For the final version of the abstract, Hartley (2010) provides a useful set 
of guidelines concerning what might be included. These can be summarized 
as follows: 
• 
Background: outline the issues that led you to work on the topic and 
explain briefly why you think your research focus has significance for 
your intended readers
• 
Aims: outline what you set out to achieve
• 
Methods/procedures: describe how you set about to achieve your 
research aims through the design of your data collection and analysis 
tools and procedures
• 
Results: report the main findings of the research
• 
Conclusions/implications: summarize your main conclusions and (perhaps) 
provide suggestions for further research that would extend the work 
Organizing the structural framework
In this section, we will discuss the organization of the structural framework 
of your thesis into its table of contents. The hierarchy of ideas can usually be 
represented as follows: 
Box 6.3. Structural framework hierarchy
THESIS TITLE
➡
CHAPTER TITLE
➡
SECTION/SUBSECTION HEADINGS
➡
TOPIC SENTENCES WITHIN EACH PARAGRAPH
86  The PhD Writing Handbook
The thesis title provides an overarching description of the research project 
and will include at least some of its key concepts and themes. Chapter titles, 
section headings and subsection headings break this down further in a clear 
and logical manner. Finally, topic sentences (see Chapter 10) signal the 
content of individual paragraphs. This is the skeleton structure of your thesis. 
Each level of the hierarchy provides important signposts to enable readers to 
understand the way in which your ideas will be organized. 
There are certain disciplinary conventions which require you to think 
about the way in which you present your framework. For example, readers 
of many humanities PhD theses will not expect sections and subsections 
to be numbered. In contrast, many science disciplines and social science 
disciplines such as economics do encourage hierarchical structures broken 
down with several levels of numbers. (3.1, 3.1.1, even 3.1.1.1 in some cases). 
If your readers expect a numerical breakdown, you will need to justify not 
meeting their expectations. For cross-disciplinary projects there can be 
real problems in situations where two sets of conventions clash. Managing 
reader expectations is even more important here. 
At this point it may be useful to present some principles for organizing 
your structural framework to meet reader expectations:
1.	 The number of chapters is important. If expectations are for six to eight 
chapters, you will need to justify a structure which contains more or 
fewer.
2.	 The sequence of chapters is important. This should conform to expected 
norms of logical development within your field or associated fields of 
study.
3.	 The overall structure should as far as possible keep the argument on 
track.
4.	 Headings for chapters must be clear and informative. 
Each of these will be discussed in turn in the sections that follow. 
How many chapters should you write? 
Although in some disciplines nine or ten chapters might be considered exces-
sive, you will find that it is not difficult to come close to this number as your 
work progresses. The final structure of my own PhD thesis had nine chapters, 
even though I had initially anticipated writing six. In fact, ten chapters each 
containing 8,000 words does not seem unreasonable for a PhD thesis of 80,000 
words. However, it is likely that your most important chapters will be longer, 
perhaps up to 15,000 words. Six to eight chapters might therefore be considered 
the norm with the introduction and conclusion being counted within this total. 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  87
In some cases, the number of chapters may be prescribed. PhD research-
ers in many science disciplines make use of LaTex software (see Appendix 1): 
this contains templates that suggest the number of chapters to be written 
and organizes your thesis table of contents for you. In the end, the number of 
chapters will be a decision that you have to make together with your supervi-
sor. More than nine chapters is perhaps unlikely, while fewer than five would 
also be unexpected. 
Chapter sequencing and structure
If we return to the sample table of contents presented previously, one of the 
most surprising features was the fact that the ‘historical background’ chapter 
appeared after the ‘case study’ chapter. The explanation for this was inter-
esting: one of the writer’s main concerns when constructing his framework 
was to make sure that the importance of the case study was highlighted. He 
therefore decided to place the case study chapter earlier in the sequence of 
chapters than would normally be expected. To achieve this, he was forced to 
move some of the background chapters (including ‘historical background’) 
until later in the sequence. 
In later versions of his framework, he decided (rightly) to reverse this 
decision. The problem here is one of reader expectations and the possible 
response of readers when meeting a sequence of chapters that seems unjus-
tified. If readers follow the sequence suggested in the first draft, they may 
be placed in a position where they are forced to engage with the details of 
a case study for which they may not have the requisite background knowl-
edge. The solution for chapter sequencing is to follow the expected order as 
far as possible, making radical changes only if you can justify these to both 
yourself and your readers. 
Keeping the argument on track
In any framework, too many sections and too many headings can lead to 
problems of comprehension as different pieces of text become disconnected 
from each other. This may have particular relevance for the ‘papers’ model 
of PhD thesis, where separate literature reviews and ‘methods sections’ 
are often a requirement. However, under-organization of the structural 
framework may prove to be equally problematic. Too much continuous text 
without any breaks may result in readers’ losing the thread of the argumen-
tation and sense of coherence within the text. Such issues will be discussed 
in further detail in Chapter 8. 
To achieve a good organizational balance, it may help you to work with 
two versions of your table of contents. The first can be much more detailed 
and is for your own reference, acting as a guide as you slowly build your text. 
88  The PhD Writing Handbook
The other will be the simpler version for the reader, containing less detail 
and published in the final version of your thesis. 
Wording of headings
Chapter and chapter section headings can be problematic when they are:
1.	 expressed in non-specific, vague or ambiguous language so that the reader 
cannot understand the content of the section that has been labelled
2.	 inaccurate, misleading the reader
3.	 repetitive, making different sections appear alike when they may be very 
different in terms of their content
4.	 inconsistent in their use of key terminology. From the example provided, 
if the agreed term is ‘evolution’, we will need to be careful changing to 
‘transition’ unless there are good reasons
5.	 frivolous or flippant, added to achieve a humorous effect. Humour in 
PhD theses is certainly not proscribed. It is difficult, however, to create 
humorous labels which are also substantive and accurate 
Certain types of headings may be considered unacceptable in specific disci-
plines but welcomed in others. For instance, interrogative headings are some-
times rejected on stylistic grounds. If they are acceptable to your readers, 
they can act as a useful structural device, allowing chapters and chapter 
sections to be organized as an answer to a specific question. However, one 
potential problem needs to be recognized: it may be that by asking a ques-
tion in a title, there is an implication that you are about to answer it. If this 
turns out not to be the case, your readers’ expectations will be frustrated. 
  Types of chapters within the structural framework
In this section, we examine the types of chapters that you will need to 
consider placing within the structural framework of a ‘traditional’ PhD thesis. 
It should be noted that the ‘by papers’ model of the PhD will require a very 
different structure with three or four publishable papers linked together by 
strong introductory and concluding sections. 
The short descriptions of typical chapters are intended only as a rough 
guide to help you fit together the pieces of your own structural framework. 
It is evident that there will be great variation both across and within disci-
plines concerning the role of each element. In some cases, the arrangement 
and balance of chapter content will be prescribed by your readers, while in 
others you will be allowed more freedom to develop a structure that will fit 
the needs of your individual research project. 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  89
The introductory chapter
This is where you will need to convince readers that what you have to say 
will be of interest and of significance. There is no requirement to lay out 
everything on the table at the same time. Instead, your introduction is more 
likely to select and highlight the most significant aspects of your research. 
The analogy of a shop window is perhaps more pertinent than that of a 
market stall. 
An introductory chapter can be short, about five to six pages, or much 
longer if the aim is to present a more detailed research context or provide 
an explanation of the research methodology. If there is to be no designated 
methodology chapter, it is often the case that the research design and data 
collection methods will be presented as part of the introduction. 
A useful question to consider is precisely when an introductory chapter 
should be written. Some supervisors will strongly advise leaving this until the 
very end. In some ways this makes good sense: if you write the introduction 
first, as a prediction of where your research might lead, you will probably be 
forced to rewrite it once your findings have emerged. However, if you delay 
writing a first draft of your introduction, you will be depriving yourself of a 
helpful statement of intent that can inform the rest of your work. A useful 
compromise may be to write at least one draft of an introductory chapter but 
to keep it for your own reference as a writing guide. 
Literature review
Most PhD theses will contain a literature review in some form. A key struc-
tural decision is whether there will be one designated chapter that contains 
the review. Alternatively, the review of the relevant literature may be spread 
throughout the thesis, built into different chapters. In some cases, there 
may even be a separate dedicated literature review which focuses on the 
design of the research and its data collection methods. See Chapter 4 for 
a full discussion of how literature review chapters can be developed and 
­organized. See Chapter 5 for a discussion of key concept development within 
a literature review chapter or chapters. 
Methodology
According to Walshaw (2012: 124), the purpose of a ‘methodology’ or 
‘research design’ chapter is:
to describe what you have done in your study and to provide a justification 
for the choices made, offering sound reasons for not choosing other options 
to address your research questions. Your decisions should be explained in 
such a way that another researcher is absolutely clear about the assumptions 
underpinning those decisions and would be able to replicate the study.
90  The PhD Writing Handbook
This type of approach would perhaps be more suited to certain science disci-
plines, where procedures need to be carefully described, explained and justi-
fied. Designated ‘research design’ chapters are often a requirement in such 
subject areas. This may also be the case in some non-science disciplines or 
wherever there is a need to describe in detail and justify how experiments 
are set up. The approach may be less applicable for arts, humanities and 
social science subject areas, where it is often a personal choice whether or 
not to include a separate ‘methodology chapter’ in the structural framework. 
A methodology chapter may also provide an exploration of a particular 
research model that you have chosen to adopt, especially in cases where the 
model contravenes disciplinary expectations. A good example was provided 
by a researcher from the University of London, School of Pharmacy who I 
once taught. His main research interest was in exploring patients’ resistance 
to taking medicine prescribed for high blood pressure. He decided to conduct 
a series of semi-structured interviews and focus groups that would yield 
qualitative data, an approach considered unusual within his discipline. The 
methodology chapter in his case provided an important justification for his 
entire research project. 
Reporting and analysing findings
Even at an early stage of PhD thesis writing, it is advisable to start thinking 
ahead to a possible structure for the chapters in which you intend to report 
and analyse your research data. Questions to consider include the following:
• 
How will you communicate your results?
• 
Will your reporting be organized in relation to your research questions?
• 
Will the findings from each data collection method be reported sepa-
rately?
• 
Alternatively, will you structure your data reporting according to certain 
predetermined or emergent themes?
• 
Do you intend to tell a story followed by analysis?
• 
Alternatively, will you build analysis into a reporting narrative? 
The answers to such questions will be discussed in detail in Chapter 12. 
Conclusion chapters
A conclusion chapter addresses a series of related questions: ‘Having exam-
ined my key findings in some detail, what does all this mean? What are the 
implications of what has been discovered? What is their significance for the 
wider research community? What further studies need to be carried out?’ All 
of these might be summarized in two words: ‘So what?’ 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  91
Some writers choose this type of structural framework because they would 
like to conduct a more theoretical discussion in the early sections of the 
thesis and to report on an empirical study in the final section. There are 
advantages in this approach if you are planning to submit sections of your 
work for publication. The disadvantage in certain subject areas, such as 
education or medicine, is that you may inadvertently create too great a divide 
between theoretical considerations and those related to actual practice. 
  Chapter introductions and conclusions
Crafting chapter introductions
When readers begin a thesis chapter, they will expect to receive some 
indication of the direction in which the arguments will lead them. If the 
beginning of a chapter constitutes point A, they will appreciate some indi-
cation of the end point of the chapter (point B) and a clearly mapped route 
In your conclusion chapter, you may wish to begin by providing a 
summary of your findings, but your task does not end there. This chapter 
provides you with the opportunity to move the discussion beyond the narrow 
confines of your research project to consider its significance within (and 
perhaps beyond) your disciplinary area. You may also decide to link back to 
the literature discussed in earlier chapters and consider whether there is a 
need to reappraise the way these particular issues have been treated in the 
past. Finally, the chapter provides you with an opportunity to consider the 
limitations of your study and to issue an invitation to other researchers to 
carry on at the point where you have stopped. 
Chapters within broader sections
In addition to individual chapters, you may wish to consider grouping chap-
ters into thematically organized sections within your table of contents, as 
below: 
Box 6.4. Examples of thesis sections
Section A: (Chapters 1–2) Research context
Section B: (Chapters 3–4) Research methodology and analytical frame-
works
Section C: (Chapters 5–8) Data reporting and analysis 
92  The PhD Writing Handbook
between the two. Carefully planned chapter introductions are important for 
many reasons:
• 
They help identify the main themes that will be considered in the text.
• 
They answer the question, ‘what function does this chapter serve?’ 
within the thesis’ structural framework.
• 
They make a significant contribution to the overall coherence of the 
chapter.
• 
They can map the structure of the rest of the chapter for the reader.
• 
From the writer’s point of view, they also provide a useful map for the 
rest of the text.
• 
They can attract the interest of the reader and provide some degree of 
motivation to engage with the text.
• 
They can provide a clear indication of how a particular chapter relates to 
the rest of the thesis. If there are links with other chapters, these can be 
made explicit, thus contributing to the coherence of the whole text. 
There are many different ways of planning the beginning of a chapter, 
including the following: 
a) Referring back to a previous chapter or chapters
‘In Chapter 3, the connections between X and Y were carefully examined …’ 
This can help readers connect to other relevant parts of your text. You 
cannot always assume that readers, including examiners, will read your 
thesis according to the chapter order that you have carefully laid out. Some 
will prefer to move around within the text and may even begin by reading 
the reporting of your findings or your conclusions. This kind of opening 
sentence will indicate to such readers that they may need to refer back to 
what has been written previously. 
Referring back to previous chapters may not provide a particularly 
memorable opening to a new chapter. However, readers often find this 
kind of backward referencing to be useful to guide them through the intri-
cacies of a long text. Whether this reference is in the first sentence or the 
first paragraph is a stylistic issue. I would argue that in a first draft, stylistic 
issues should not be your primary consideration, though they should not 
be ignored. If you wish to communicate effectively with readers, considera-
tions of clarity and coherence need to outweigh the need or desire to be 
stylish. More careful attention to issues of style can always be provided at 
the editing stage. 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  93
b) Direct thesis statements
‘In this chapter, I will argue that …’ 
This type of opening has the advantage of coming straight to the point, making 
clear to the reader both the scope of the chapter and your own position. 
Establishing your own point of view as early as possible means that clarity 
and coherence within the chapter will be easier to establish and maintain. 
The main disadvantage of getting to the point in the very first sentence is 
style-related. Many writers and readers prefer an opening that will establish 
the broad context in a few sentences before the main aim of the chapter is 
reached. A thesis statement can be as powerful at the end of an opening 
paragraph as it is at the beginning. 
c) Quotations
Fifty years ago, the norm for erudite academic writing was often to begin 
a text with a Latin quotation. This was considered good practice in terms 
of stylishness and elegance at least in the arts and humanities. Nowadays, 
quotations tend to be selected for their relevance as much as for the impact 
that they will make on the reader. 
Quotations can make a chapter introduction seem distinctive without the 
need for any excessive digression. If the quotation is clearly separated from 
the rest of the text, it can, in any case, be safely ignored whenever it is consid-
ered to be too great a distraction. However, when unsuitable quotations are 
built into the opening lines of a text, this can sometimes present a challenge to 
the reader. Consider the following extracts: 
Box 6.5. Alternative introductions to a text
1.	Within the mosaic of states, nations and societies of Eastern Europe, 
language is a powerful index of nationality. The essence or soul 
of nationality, said Joshua Fishman in his study of Language and 
Nationalism in 1972, ‘is not only reflected and protected by the mother 
tongue, but in a sense the mother tongue is itself … the soul made mani-
fest’. So, too, Dr Johnson who told Boswell that he was always sorry 
when any language is lost ‘for languages are the pedigree of nations’.
2.	In 1996 I was approached by a complete stranger while talking with a 
group of friends in the Slovak town of Banska Bystrica. His words of 
greeting, ‘na Slovensku po slovensky!’ translate as ‘in Slovakia you 
should speak Slovak’.
94  The PhD Writing Handbook
About fifteen years ago, I was asked to contribute a chapter for a book enti-
tled ‘Democracy and Cultural Diversity’. My chapter would focus on Slovakia, 
where I had lived for several years and carried out some research on language 
legislation. At the time, there was a nationalist government in Slovakia 
which had decided to instigate new language laws to ensure the supremacy 
of the Slovak language over Czech, Hungarian and English. One example is 
that according to the new laws, all foreign television programmes had to be 
dubbed in Slovak even if they were in Czech (a very similar language). I began 
to write my chapter under the title ‘Slovakia: Language and National Unity’.
The extracts above represent two possible introductions to my chapter. 
I wanted to use the second extract to provide what I considered to be a 
powerful illustrative example of one of my major themes. At the time, there 
was a good deal of linguistic discrimination prevalent in the country, and 
this was exemplified by an unusual incident in which I was directly involved: 
When I was walking along a road with a friend, we were admonished by a 
man who ordered us to stop speaking English. The outrage of this citizen 
had stayed in my mind. 
However, my editor had other ideas. Although he found the chapter inter-
esting, he considered that the introductory section lacked resonance and 
style, sounding too anecdotal. He re-wrote my introduction, moving a quota-
tion from an academic writer (Joshua Fishman) from another part of my 
text to the first paragraph. He then added a well-known quotation from the 
author and lexicographer Dr Johnson describing language as ‘the pedigree of 
nations’. The rest of my text was left unchanged. 
When I first read the opening words of this chapter, I had difficulty recog-
nizing it as a piece of text that I had written. I protested, arguing that readers 
would not welcome a quotation from Dr Johnson that distracted from the 
text, added little to it and made it look derivative. However, the editor’s 
word was final. To me, this illustrates the strength of feeling that readers 
may harbour with respect to the style of introductory sections. This editor 
considered that a well-written chapter should always start in a ‘stylish’ way. 
A compromise was finally reached, and I was allowed to keep my illustrative 
example if it were included in the second paragraph. However, the compro-
mise included the condition that I should change the style once again, using 
‘the writer’ rather than first-person ‘I’ to refer to myself. 
This story demonstrates how academic readers who are also accustomed to 
communicating in writing may have very clear expectations of chapter opening 
sections. My editor had previously supervised large numbers of PhD students 
and would have advised them accordingly. It is clearly important to find out 
the expectations of your readers. If you shock, disappoint or distract them, 
miscommunication may result. If you are sometimes forced to alter your style 
to accommodate them, this may have to happen despite your reservations. 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  95
d) Illustrative narratives or anecdotes
My chosen approach of starting with an illustrative story can also present 
problems. When you tell a story, readers are unlikely to know where it is 
leading. If the story is succinct and illustrates its point clearly, your readers 
will be able to appreciate it and understand its purpose. If, however, you 
begin a chapter with a long narrative, readers may quickly become disori-
ented. In this case, I considered that my story was not only short enough but 
also original and powerful: it reflected an incident that had not been reported 
anywhere else and that had shocked me. Perhaps I wanted to include it to 
shock my readers in turn, but I considered that my story was not just a stylis-
tic device but a central part of my chapter. 
Identifying and highlighting chapter themes
After the opening sentences of a chapter, the following need to be the main 
considerations for an academic writer planning an introductory section: 
• 
establishing the scope and aims of the chapter – what will be included and 
excluded, which issues will be considered in depth and which will be 
deferred
• 
outlining the chapter structure – while it could be argued that the table of 
contents can fulfil this role, your readers will appreciate some guidance 
built into the text indicating the directions that the chapter will follow
• 
establishing your own position or ‘angle’ – of particular importance in 
literature review chapters where the points of view of different writers 
will be discussed 
Some writers who have no difficulty with the first two of these elements can 
find that the third is more problematic. The extract below, which begins an 
individual research paper included in a PhD thesis, includes a strong posi-
tional statement which is clear to the reader. 
Box 6.6. A positional statement
Understanding disarmament, demobilization and reincorporation 
processes. Incentives and armed conflict contexts.
I have two scenarios for developing my research on incentives for engag-
ing in a DDR process. The first one is based on the rebel organization 
and the second one is former combatants. This paper seeks to analyze 
the group incentives for making or engaging DDR. Therefore, I want to 
➔
96  The PhD Writing Handbook
This type of approach will work for some projects but not others. You may 
prefer or be required to establish your standpoint in a less direct manner: It 
is also possible that your readers will share this preference. Although there 
are no straightforward ‘one-size-fits-all’ prescriptions for success, it is worth 
seeking out this type of example in your own disciplinary area. Explicitly 
stating your position so that readers will understand your underlying think-
ing will contribute significantly to the clarity of your text. This theme will be 
further developed in Chapter 8. 
Concluding sections
Thody (2006: 161) presents some sensible ‘design criteria’ for chapter 
endings, which can be summarized as follows:
• 
Try to make the major findings or arguments within the chapter memo-
rable.
• 
Include an overview of what has been said in the chapter, and make sure 
that readers have been provided with any information that they will need 
in order to understand chapter content. 
Surprisingly, very few other authors choose to focus on this area of writing. 
To address the gap, it is hoped that the points listed below will provide a 
degree of practical support. Concluding sections of individual thesis chapters 
may do any of the following:
1.	 Summarize key arguments that have been presented.
	
It can be argued that for some complex chapters in particular, there is 
merit in repeating key arguments. Pulling all of the different strands of 
answer the following questions: why have some countries that have had 
peace processes decided to implement DDR programs? What is the rela-
tionship between conflict types, kinds of DDR and their outcomes? What 
can we learn from past experiences of DDR about the set of incentives 
faced by negotiators either from the government side and/or the rebel 
forces?
My hypothesis here is that if the armed groups have strong economic 
incentives for fighting, they should be less likely to start a “real” DDR 
process, taking into account that their armed structures might become an 
army reserve keeping the established coordination networks which can 
be easily reactivated. 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  97
the chapter together may help the reader to absorb and remember the 
important points that you have made. For other chapters, this type of 
repetition may be unnecessary and unwanted.
2.	 Examine the implications of arguments presented in a chapter.
	
As is the case in the conclusion chapter of your thesis, an important 
question to ask is, ‘What does all of this mean?’ The only problem is that 
at the chapter level you may not be able to do justice to this question 
without producing an excessively long piece of text.
3.	 Provide a ‘high-impact ending’ to the chapter.
	
There are dangers in high-impact endings, as there are for high-impact 
beginnings. However, if you can make readers remember your words 
(see Thody’s criteria above), the risk may be worth taking from time to 
time.
4.	 Look forward to the next chapter, providing clear links.
	
A convention within TV drama series is that a preview of the next 
episode will raise interest and motivate viewers to tune in. Whether 
this same technique can work in an academic thesis is uncertain. Links 
between chapters are necessary, but may be more appropriately placed 
at the beginning of the following chapter. You will also need to avoid 
generating wrong expectations in this way: it is quite easy to promise 
content that you then forget to deliver. 
Task 6.1: Evaluating a second-draft table of contents
Earlier in this chapter, the first draft of a table of contents was presented 
for discussion. The following year, the same writer submitted an updated 
version. This is reproduced below. 
What changes have been made?
Which of the changes appear to have improved the structural framework?
Are there any problem areas that remain?
Buddhist minorities in India: a Human Rights perspective and its 
legal ­implications 
Chapter 1: Introduction
1.1.  Main aims of this thesis
1.2.  Wider context and analytical framework
1.3.  The structure and methodological underpinnings
Chapter 2: Historical Background
2.1.  Historicity of India
2.2.  The terms ‘Hindu’ and ‘Hinduism’
➔
98  The PhD Writing Handbook
2.3.  Pre-eminence of Buddhism prior to the advent of Muslims in India
2.4.  When, why and how Buddhism disappeared in India
2.5.  Co-option of Buddhism into Brahmanism
2.6.  Rediscovery of Buddhism by the British
2.7.  Concerns of minorities during the British Raj
2.8.  Buddhism and Buddhist laws in South Asia
2.9.  Revival of Buddhism in India
2.10.  Buddhist minorities in India 
Chapter 3: Constitutional and Legislative Issues
3.1.  Development of Constitutional Law in India vis-à-vis the minorities
3.2.  Issues of minorities and the Constituent Assembly Debates
3.3.  Article 25 of the Constitution of India
3.4.  Reflection of Article 25 in other legislative instruments
3.5.  Case law on the term ‘Hindu’ and on article 25 of the Constitution 
of India
3.6.  The Hindu code and its ‘Hindu’ hegemony
3.7.  Debates regarding the ‘Application of Acts’ of Hindu Code
3.8.  Access to justice vis-à-vis the present Personal Laws of India
3.9.  Issues stretching outside the ambit of s.7 of HMA, 1955
3.10.   Case law on the issues of Buddhist minorities
3.11.   Juristic writings
3.12.  Overlapping vagueness between ‘reconstruction’ and 
‘­deconstruction’
3.13.  Legal pluralism and informality 
Chapter 4: Human Rights Perspective
4.1.  Definition of ‘minorities’ and minority rights discourse
4.2.  Right against discrimination
4.3.  Vulnerability during transition
4.4.  Executive actions
4.5.  Issue of reservations
4.6.  Right to profess and practise one’s own religion
4.7.  Concoction and camouflaging of the religious sites 
Chapter 5: Case Study – the Bodhgaya Temple
5.1.  Introduction
5.2.  History and importance of the Bodhgaya Temple
5.3.  The Bodhgaya Temple Management Act 1949
5.4.  Violation of articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India
5.5.  Struggle for its emancipation 
Chapter 6: Conclusion
6.1  Prospects and implications
6.2  Appropriateness of laws 
Building a Structured Chapter Framework  99
1.	 Produce a draft table of contents and abstract for your research project. 
Use this table of contents as a structural framework that will help you 
plan your writing. Revise and complete this document as your research 
progresses.
2.	Use your table of contents as a ‘mediation document’ in discussions 
with your supervisor that will feed into the planning of chapter writing. 
Keep a record of alterations in your table of contents and abstract. It 
may be useful to compare different versions to identify changes in your 
thinking.
3.	Consider the types of chapters that will need to be included in the final 
version of your thesis and place them within an organizational hierarchy.
4.	Decide on and prepare to justify the number of chapters that you are 
likely to need in relation to reader expectations and the needs of your 
project. When dividing chapters into sections, avoid over-organization and 
under-organization. Observe disciplinary conventions for headings and 
the numbering of sections.
5.	Pay attention to chapter sequencing so that the order matches the devel-
opment of argumentation within the thesis.
6.	Pay attention to the wording of chapter headings and subheadings: 
these will act as important signposts for readers and should be precise, 
accurate, consistent in their use of terminology and meaningful.
7.	 Carefully plan chapter introductions and conclusions to fit into your 
framework. These will provide readers with a clear map to guide them 
through each chapter and to help them understand its role within the 
thesis. 
Action Points
100
7 Establishing Productive 
Writing Routines
This chapter 
• 
considers the role of productive routines in first draft thesis 
writing
• 
examines how the setting of specific tasks or goals can contribute to a 
writing routine
• 
discusses different ways in which writers engage with their texts
• 
considers the importance of feedback on writing and the role of the 
supervisor
• 
advises on how to respond to written and oral feedback 
A structural framework for a PhD thesis such as a table of contents is 
only, as Umberto Eco (2015) points out, ‘a working hypothesis’. An addi-
tional element is necessary if your plan is to be of practical value – the 
allocation of time. One of the reasons for the growing popularity of ‘New 
Route’ PhDs is, I would argue, because they help PhD researchers allo-
cate time more effectively due to their structured nature. In the more 
traditional model of PhD research, it is mostly the responsibility of the 
researcher to manage time. Nowhere is this more difficult than in the 
planning of writing. 
  Goals, schedules and routines
The time that you have available for writing needs to be carefully broken 
down so that writing tasks can be allocated to time slots. A first step might 
be to try the following simple quiz. 
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  101
There are different aspects of setting goals, and there are different aspects 
of planning, some of which appear to receive more attention than others. 
Here is an example of a question which deserves your full attention: When 
are you most productive? Alternatively, when are you least productive? 
My own answers to these questions would be early in the morning (most 
productive) and late at night (least productive). However, this has not always 
been the case: I can remember writing essays late into the night when I was in 
my early 20s. It seems that different people have different body rhythms which 
can change over a period of time. According to Morgan (2013), the teenage 
brain typically requires nine hours of sleep, but the teenage body clock tends to 
switch off only late at night. There are obvious consequences the next morning 
with parents having to force teenage children to get up for school. An equiva-
lent would perhaps be an adult forced to wake up in the middle of the night 
on a regular basis. It also seems that some schools in the UK have now real-
ized that timetables created by adults may not enable teenage students to be 
at their most productive and are beginning to conduct a series of experiments 
with starting times. (See Appendix 1 for further details.) A later starting-time 
will allow the teenage brain to reach its peak activity early in the afternoon. 
When writing a long and complex academic text, it is essential that you 
should know when you are most productive and use this knowledge to your 
advantage. This means establishing suitable writing routines. If you are the 
type of person who can write in the morning, plan your time accordingly. 
However, it is almost certain that problems will arise as soon as your morning 
writing routine enters into conflict with other routines and the routines of those 
around you. You will need to be prepared for this situation. A typical example 
would be when ‘peak writing times’ clash with times when you need to be 
working somewhere else, perhaps in the office or teaching a scheduled class. 
Box 7.1. Goals, schedules and routines quiz  
for writing
1. When are you at your most productive: 8 a.m., 3 p.m., 9 p.m., 2 a.m.? 
Or does it vary?
2. Which days of the week will be dedicated to the PhD?
3. How many months of the year will be mainly dedicated to PhD work 
and which will not?
4. How much writing would you expect to produce in a day that is dedi-
cated to writing – 250, 500, 1000 words?
5. Where do you prefer to read/write?
6. How do you prefer to write?
102  The PhD Writing Handbook
The biographies of famous writers clearly demonstrate the importance of 
writing routines. Novelist Graham Greene would get up at 6am every morning, 
go to his desk and start writing. He would then have breakfast at about 9am. 
This was a routine that never varied. In reaction to this, you may argue that he 
was a professional writer and his situation was therefore different, to which I 
would respond that at certain stages of your PhD and during your subsequent 
academic career, writing will be your main occupation. You will have stopped 
collecting your data, you will have done most of your reading and you will be 
writing full-time. It is a daunting prospect for many researchers. 
To seek inspiration for establishing productive writing routines, there is 
a useful website, http://dailyroutines.typepad.com/, which documents the 
routines of public figures in many areas of professional activity, including 
writing. There are also classifications according to preferences. It seems 
that some people (including, for example, novelist Will Self) can be classified 
as ‘early risers’, whereas others might be labelled ‘night owls’. Franz Kafka 
was a good example of the latter, beginning his writing regularly at 11 p.m. 
and continuing even until 6 a.m. on occasions, depending on his energy and 
resilience levels. Once the writing session had been completed, he would set 
off for his daytime job as chief clerk at an insurance company. 
  When will you write? How will you allocate time?
Questions 2 and 3 in my ‘Goals, Schedules and Routines Quiz’ will help to 
further break down a writing routine. In terms of PhD thesis writing, this will 
normally be by means of:
1.	 monthly plans
2.	 daily schedules 
The monthly plan is the preferred option for many writers. Here is a greatly 
adapted version of an example produced by a student in his third year of PhD 
study who went to consult his supervisor after a year’s absence, collecting 
research data. At this point his supervisor suggested that he should perhaps 
make a six-month plan and then begin writing. 
Box 7.2. A sample monthly plan for writing
January
•	 Meet with supervisor to agree on writing plan
•	 Develop detailed plan with timeframes
➔
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  103
I met the same student several months later and asked him about his writing 
and whether his plan had been successful. Predictably, it had proved to be 
unrealistic for a number of reasons. From our discussions, however, I began 
to realize that such plans have the following advantages:
1.	 Having a plan is always better than having no plan. A monthly plan is a 
statement of intent and an attempt to rationalize a complex process.
2.	 A written plan serves as a point of reference and as a useful mediation 
document with supervisors and other potential readers.
3.	 A written plan can help draw a distinction between different types of 
writing. In this case ‘transcribing’, ‘fleshing out chapter outlines’, ‘writing 
chapters’ and ‘reviewing feedback’ are all included. 
•	 Transcribe data transcripts, arrange data reporting formats (5 days)
•	 Flesh out chapter outlines
February
•	 Write/submit 1st draft of Chapter 1 (10 days)
•	 Transcribe transcripts, arrange data (5 days)
•	 Flesh out chapter outlines (ongoing) 
March
•	 Write/submit 1st draft of Chapter 2 (10 days)
•	 Transcribe transcripts, arrange data (5 days)
•	 Review and take notes, new theoretical literature (3 days)
•	 Flesh out chapter outlines (ongoing) 
April
•	 Write/submit 1st draft of Chapter 3 (10 days)
•	 Begin 1st draft of Chapter 4 (5 days)
•	 Flesh out chapter outlines (ongoing)
•	 Review chapter-by-chapter feedback from supervisor (3 days) 
May
•	 Complete/submit 1st draft of Chapter 4 (5 days)
•	 Write/submit 1st draft of Chapter 5 (15 days)
•	 Review chapter-by-chapter feedback from supervisor (3 days) 
June
•	 Write/submit 1st draft of Chapter 6 (10 days)
•	 Holiday break (7 days)
•	 Write/submit 1st draft of the Introduction (5 days)
104  The PhD Writing Handbook
These seem to be the disadvantages of this particular plan:
• 
an unrealistic and over-optimistic time allocation 
• 
a linear time allocation, indicating that writing is seen only as the end 
product of thinking rather than a means of clarifying thinking. Chapter 1 
in February is followed by Chapter  2 in March and Chapter  3 in April. 
This is unlikely to relate to reality
• 
no consideration of other aspects of life, apart from a one-week break 
from writing in June. How does this plan match other commitments? 
When planning months of activity, it is important to provide some flex-
ibility and not to over-plan 
The final point shows the real deficiency of monthly plans. They provide 
an overview of possible time allocation but rarely recognize the fact that 
in some months, you will be able to make substantial progress with your 
writing while in others there will be other commitments in daily life to 
prevent you from doing so. This is why some kind of varying weekly sched-
ule is also essential. 
How does such a schedule work? The answer is that it may need to be 
planned on the basis of a ‘deficit model’, eliminating times that will not be 
available for writing or reading and then carefully organizing the hours that 
remain. You will also need to consider when you are most and least produc-
tive. Routines might also be organized around more practical considerations: 
for example, if you have young children, you may only have the option of 
writing at night when they are asleep. A sample writing schedule is provided 
below (based on Zerubavel 1999: 26). Note that:
• 
All dark shaded areas are unavailable for writing. In some cases, specific 
appointments have been entered in these slots. Others are kept free for 
sleeping, family time, travelling or leisure activities. Sunday and Monday 
have been designated as free days.
• 
All light shaded areas have been allocated as regular writing/reading times: 
from these, it is evident that the person concerned prefers a morning 
writing routine.
• 
White squares are available for scheduling more writing, if needed. 
While this approach can provide the basis for a regular weekly schedule, the 
actual writing activities (and therefore the writing schedule) will vary from 
week to week. Breaking down writing into separate activities can seem diffi-
cult but is an essential step in developing a productive routine. 
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  105
Zerubavel (1999) provides useful advice in this area from his own experi-
ences of PhD thesis writing. He realized that there were certain times when 
he expected to be most productive and that it would be useful to allocate 
the most complex forms of writing to these periods. This might include any 
Table 7.1 Sample weekly writing schedule
 
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday
6.00
7.00
Chapter 3:
1st draft
Chapter 3:
1st draft
Data 
report
8.00
Chapter 3:
1st draft
Chapter 3:
1st draft
Data 
report
9.00
Chapter 3:
1st draft
Shopping
10.00
Teaching
Reading
Chapter 2 
finish
Re-reading
Shopping
11.00
Teaching
Reading
Chapter 2
Re-reading
 Shopping
12.00
Reading
13.00
Reading
Teaching
14.00
Staff 
Meeting
Teaching
15.00
Supervisor 
Meeting
16.00
Supervisor 
Meeting
17.00
18.00
19.00
Eating out 
with family
20.00
Eating out 
with family
21.00
Eating out 
with family
22.00
Eating out 
with family
23.00
0.00
106  The PhD Writing Handbook
first draft chapter writing tasks, but in particular the production of pieces of 
text in which key concepts or theoretical frameworks were being explored, 
where source references were being analysed or where conclusions were 
being drawn based on an analysis of data. He labelled such tasks ‘Type A 
writing’. Simpler tasks, including data transcribing, preparing a bibliogra-
phy or producing a descriptive narrative, were labelled ‘Type B writing’. His 
recommendation is that writers should try to allocate the most difficult Type 
A tasks for times when they know that they will be productive. If writers feel 
tired for some reason, there is always the option of switching to Type B tasks 
rather than stopping writing altogether. 
This is practical advice that can make a real difference in the effec-
tive management of your time and also in maintaining your motivation to 
write. It is essential that ‘quality time’ is allocated for the most difficult and 
complex writing tasks. However, for this type of routine to work effectively, 
you will also need the cooperation of others, especially those who may 
believe that being a full-time PhD researcher allows you total flexibility in 
your daily life. Allocate your chosen hours for both writing (Type A and B) 
and reading activities – and then let other people know. Put your schedule 
in a prominent place at home or at work. When friends or family ask you to 
make yourself available at an inconvenient time, point out politely that this 
would shorten your scheduled writing time. Although first reactions may 
not always be positive, other people will gradually realize that you need to 
schedule writing time in the same way as teaching time or any other impor-
tant activity. It is certainly worth making the effort to impose some order on 
your writing in this way. 
Alternative approaches to time management are readily available, 
usually in the form of self-contained workshops. I attended one some 
years ago which left many people feeling somewhat depressed. The 
workshop leader asked all the participants to work out exactly how many 
months, weeks and hours they had left to complete their thesis and then 
divide their time according to the number of tasks requiring completion. 
This type of approach seems to assume that you can force yourself to meet 
a deadline just because it is there, accompanied by an apparent assump-
tion that every hour is of equal value. Deadlines can help you remain 
focused on the tasks ahead, but they will only be of value if they are real-
istic. If you feel you are being given unreasonable targets by supervisors 
and others, you will need to query them. Living in a target-driven society 
can mean that sometimes you can aim too high. Both monthly plans and 
preferred routines will need to build in sufficient flexibility to allow you to 
readjust. 
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  107
  Setting goals and targets
The fourth question in my ‘goals, schedules and routines’ quiz concerns the 
setting of manageable writing targets. How many words or pages should you 
aim for in a day? Would 500 words a day be a reasonable target? Here are 
the views of two PhD researchers: 
I received the advice that if you write 500 words most days, you can have the 
whole thesis written within one year. (1st-year PhD student, humanities)
I just write 250 words a day in order to put some ideas down. (1st-year 
PhD student, law)
Using a quantitative approach may seem impractical if there is no considera-
tion of the nature of the writing task. Making the calculation that writing 500 
words per day will lead to early completion may also have failed to take into 
account that many texts will need to be rewritten three or four times. Is this 
sort of target setting therefore a waste of time? 
I would argue that some kind of quantitative target is useful as a 
rough means of time allocation in the absence of a more effective system. 
Professional writers often build such targets into their regular routines, 
providing them with a useful reference point. A travel writer making the 
transition to academic writing reflects on her own target setting as follows: 
I have research days and writing days and thinking days. So for a writing day, 
I will set a target of 1,000 words. I try to get all my ducks in a row, having 
done most of the reading and the thinking. Then I try and focus on getting 
down everything on paper for a first draft of 1,000 words. It is good to have a 
solid chunk of text to work with, even if I have to go back and re-edit. 
  Where and how will you write?
The final questions in the quiz refer to two different aspects of writing 
routines that are often taken for granted by research writers. 
Where will you write?
When you talk to or read about professional writers, it is surprising how 
many of them have a favourite place in which to write. The room, the special 
desk, even the objects on the desk arranged in a certain way and the correct 
cup of coffee can all put them in the mood for writing. Their routine revolves 
not just around writing times but also around writing locations, which also 
108  The PhD Writing Handbook
help them take control of their writing. Some examples of locations and 
accompanying rituals can be found at http://dailyroutines.typepad.com and 
include the following: 
• 
Stephen King starts work from 8:00 to 8:30. He takes a vitamin pill, 
switches on favourite music, always sits in the same seat and has papers 
all arranged in the same places.
• 
Vladimir Nabukov used to wake between 6:00 and 7:00 every morning. 
He wrote until exactly 10:30, standing at a lectern which faced a bright 
corner of the room. This ritual appears to have motivated him to write 
because it reminded him of his days as a lecturer speaking to an enthusi-
astic audience of young people. 
There is also one example of a strong view about where not to write: 
• 
Orhan Pamuk believes that the place where you sleep or the place that 
you share with your partner should be separate from the place where 
you write. 
Some writers, however, prefer to vary the places where they write. After 
carefully studying my cat, who prefers to spend two weeks in one place (on 
the window sill) and then two weeks somewhere else (on a chair), I decided 
to try this approach in my writing and found it to be quite productive. In my 
case, I spent two weeks writing in the library, followed by two weeks at 
home in a particular room. The results were positive, so it seems that there 
is also an argument to be put forward for changing location if this helps with 
self-motivation. 
How will you write?
A related question concerns how you will write. To be more precise, ‘How 
will you physically engage in the act of writing?’. This aspect of writing is 
rarely considered, even though advances in technology have resulted in 
radical changes in behaviour. Here are some specific questions to consider:
• 
Do you prefer to write ideas down directly on a PC screen as they occur 
to you?
• 
Do you make rough notes on paper and then type them up?
• 
Do you write a first draft on paper and then carefully type it out?
• 
Do you prepare a typed skeleton structure with headings and subhead-
ings and then begin to fill in the gaps?
• 
Do you ever use audio recordings of yourself thinking aloud as input for 
writing?
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  109
• 
Do you make use of Post-its (handwritten) or electronic Stickies (typed) 
to provide you with writing input?
• 
Do you make use of mind maps?
• 
Do you ever use speech recognition software to note down your stream-
of-consciousness thoughts?
• 
Do you use combinations of these techniques? Which ones?
• 
Do you vary techniques according to the writing task? 
A survey of several groups of PhD research writers provided an interesting 
range of responses to these questions: 
I use most of the techniques – and also notecards. I can’t just sit down and 
start typing. 
Most respondents shared these views, experiencing difficulties in trans-
ferring ideas in their head directly onto a screen as part of first draft writing. 
In cases where this happened, the type of writing was described as ‘explora-
tory’ or ‘a prelude to something else’, and there was an expectation that it 
would be extensively revised later. Producing a finished text by committing 
ideas directly to a screen was not considered a realistic option. However, 
one person disagreed: ‘I write stream-of-conscious right onto the screen and 
then edit. I can’t write on paper. Now if I try to think creatively on paper, I can’t 
do it. I am also too slow on paper – I type faster than I can write.’ 
One respondent made regular use of mind maps as an input to writing 
because: ‘they can help me focus on the central theme of the chapter, and 
it’s surprising how often this can change’. If you are trying to unpack key 
concepts or explain complex theories, mind maps can be useful. There is 
also the possibility that your mind map may be of sufficiently good quality to 
include as part of your written text. 
Audio-recorded notes can also provide useful input for first draft writing, 
especially in the case of chapters in which managing all of the content and 
committing it to paper or screen seem problematic. A partial transcription of 
the recording might feed directly into a first draft chapter section. The advan-
tage of audio-recorded notes is that they can include detailed information 
that you might otherwise have forgotten. It is not always possible to rush 
to the computer to write down ideas, but it is relatively easy to switch on a 
phone and record your voice. Otherwise, there is always the danger that a 
brilliant idea can be lost if you are prevented from writing it down in time. 
Finally, my own writing routine changed forever when I bought an extra 
monitor for my computer. Like many other writers, I now find it hard to 
imagine how I could have produced anything of value without making use 
of two monitors. On monitor 1, you can work on your finished document 
while you compare, copy or paste text fragments from monitor 2. This simple 
110  The PhD Writing Handbook
change can transform the ease of writing and (arguably) encourages more 
creativity as well as greater productivity. Staring at one screen encourages 
linear thinking. Looking across from one screen to another can help you 
compare different texts, move pieces of text around, organize ideas more 
effectively and (on occasions) engage in some lateral thinking. 
  Feedback on writing
In the sample monthly plan reported earlier, it was interesting to note that 
‘reviewing supervisor feedback’ had been entered as a scheduled activity. 
This type of approach should be encouraged because requesting, analysing 
and responding to feedback is an important part of any productive writing 
routine. The first step is to build regular self-monitoring into the writing 
process. What have you written so far? What problem areas have you 
encountered in writing and in reading? What kind of written and oral feed-
back have you received? How does this compare to your own evaluation? 
When I consulted a group of 1st-year PhD researchers concerning their 
self-monitoring of problem areas in reading and writing, some interesting 
results emerged. The problems that they identified are, I believe, fairly typical 
and have been summarized below: 
Box 7.3. Problem areas related to reading 
1.	Not being able to skim and scan. Having to read things twice and keep 
going back so that ideas can be transferred to note cards in prepara-
tion for writing. 
2.	Because information is disseminated across a number of different 
disciplines, texts have to be read very intensively so as not to miss 
ideas. As sometimes section labels are not helpful, it is difficult to skip 
any of the sections. The result is that everything has to be read slowly 
and carefully.
3.	Taking notes at this level sounds easy but it is not just a question of 
summarizing a few ideas at a basic level. When responding to a text, it 
is hard to know first of all what to analyse and then how to analyse it. 
4.	Going off at a tangent as a result of reading. It is possible to become 
so interested in what we read that we do not realize that this is 
happening.
5.	Some non-academic source materials and materials in other languages 
are inaccessible. 
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  111
To identify other problem areas in writing and the process of turning reading 
into writing, the next stage is to consider peer feedback and to compare it 
with your own impressions. Sometimes, what writers really need is to gain 
a rough sense of whether the gist of a text and its main arguments can be 
clearly understood, especially in cases where self-monitoring leads to doubts 
or uncertainty in this respect. The kind of questions that you can put to your 
readers (even those from other disciplines) could be as follows: 
• 
How much of this text did you understand? (50 per cent? 75 per cent? 100 
per cent?)
• 
Are the aims of the text clear?
• 
Does the text seem to be clearly structured?
• 
What is the main argument? Is it clearly articulated?
• 
How effectively are supporting arguments developed?
• 
Are the arguments backed by convincing evidence?
• 
Are the key concepts fully explored and explained?
• 
Do you have any comments on the introduction or conclusion sections?
• 
Do you have any comments on language or style? 
For many years, I have run courses in which PhD research writers are encour-
aged to submit samples of their work in order to receive this kind of feedback 
from their peers. The written texts are accompanied by an oral presentation 
by the authors, explaining the context and aims of their research and locat-
ing the sample text that has been circulated within their PhD thesis. Most 
writers find this to be a useful and encouraging experience. They appreciate 
Box 7.4. Problem areas related to writing 
1.	Compulsive rewriting of what has been written because thinking can 
change – this way it is possible to end up writing four drafts or more, 
which can also change.
2.	Managing the process of drafting and redrafting can be extremely 
difficult – if you redraft too many times before putting everything 
down on paper in a coherent fashion, you may forget your starting 
point.
3.	Time management.
4.	Conflicting pieces of text when you find that you are contradicting 
yourself in different sections of your work.
5.	Distancing yourself from your writing. 
112  The PhD Writing Handbook
knowing that their text can be understood, however technically specialized 
the content might be. The knowledge that the main arguments are being 
clearly communicated to interested readers is also reassuring. 
The next type of feedback to be considered is that which is provided by 
PhD supervisors. In general, your supervisor can be expected to provide three 
different kinds of feedback:
1.	 overall written feedback at the end of a text
2.	 detailed written feedback in the form of text annotations
3.	 oral feedback delivered in tutorials 
PhD supervisors have different supportive roles, according to Rugg and Petre 
(2004: 34). These authors categorize supervisory activities in the following 
terms:
• 
specific technical support
• 
broader intellectual support
• 
administrative support
• 
management
• 
personal support 
It seems that the first two areas of support include help with critical think-
ing relating to the content of research, finding source materials, networking 
with other researchers and providing guidance on structuring the thesis. 
The other three are self-explanatory. There is no explicit mention of any 
support for writing, apart from some giving some hints on finding a suitable 
structure. This is a significant omission from the detailed list of activities that 
these authors (and others) provide. 
The exception is Wisker (2005), who dedicates an entire chapter of her 
Good Supervisor handbook to ‘encouraging good writing’ and argues that the 
supervisor has an important role in this respect. Her advice for supervisors to 
pass on to their PhD student writers can be summarized very briefly:
• 
Get ideas down on paper at an early stage to help the process of critical 
thinking.
• 
Learn the disciplinary conventions for writing and ‘disciplinary discourse’.
• 
Clarify expectations of the structure of the thesis.
• 
Keep good notes.
• 
Record ideas in a research journal, and write reflectively.
• 
Practise two types of writing – ‘conceptual’ and ‘critically engaged’.
• 
Discuss any blocks to writing with sympathetic listeners. 
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  113
These are certainly appropriate examples of ways in which your PhD super-
visor could help you greatly with your written text. The problem is that many 
individual supervisors fail to realize that this is an important role that they 
can play, while others are concerned that they will become distracted from 
their main role of supplying technical support relating to the content and 
methodology of your research project. In many cases it will be up to you, the 
writer, to elicit this type of help from one of your intended readers. The role 
that all supervisors do recognize is that of feedback provider. Most will expect 
to provide you with all three types of feedback mentioned at the beginning of 
this section, which we will now consider in greater detail. 
You can reasonably expect that any text that you submit to a supervisor 
will be returned to you annotated with specific feedback comments. Usually, 
these will be accompanied by some overall impressionistic comments at the 
end. The summative comments will need to be supported by evidence in the 
text itself. ‘Lacks analysis’ is not a particularly useful comment unless there 
is an indication of the type of analysis that is lacking and the specific points 
in the text where further analysis appears to be required. As the recipient, 
you have to understand all of the feedback. If it is unclear, it will need to 
be queried at the earliest opportunity. Thinking of such feedback not as an 
end product but as part of an ongoing dialogue makes it natural to make this 
request. 
You will need feedback on the content of your text (which is what 
supervisors expect to provide), but feedback on the quality of your writing 
is also necessary. Supervisors are generally highly skilled and experienced 
academic writers. Many tend to write intuitively without really being aware 
of their skill levels: most also appear to enjoy writing. In the final chapter of 
this handbook, I will report on a piece of research in which academics talk 
about the importance of writing throughout an academic career. 
One important aspect of any productive routine for PhD research writing 
is how you respond to the feedback that you receive, whether written or oral. 
Feedback delivered orally as part of a tutorial has the immediate advantage 
that it can be queried on the spot. For feedback discussion to be effective 
there are certain conditions that will need to be fulfilled:
• 
Both you and your supervisor will need to listen carefully to each other 
and allow each other to explain any differences in views.
• 
You will need to record the discussion. An audio recording often works 
best, but it is always a good idea to agree to this in advance. Written 
notes can also be effective.
• 
If you do not understand the feedback received, you must try to clarify. Do 
not give up after a first attempt. Do not give the impression that you have 
114  The PhD Writing Handbook
understood if this is not the case. It is better to lose face by admitting 
ignorance, rather than allowing an opportunity for clarification to slip by. 
In many cases, the problem will be due to your supervisor’s inability to 
communicate rather than your inability to understand.
• 
You do not need to respond to criticisms of your written work immediately. 
Avoid putting yourself in situations where you feel the need to defend 
yourself at all costs. If you ask for time to think about the feedback 
and provide a measured response at a later date, this will normally be 
acceptable.
• 
There is no obligation to accept your supervisor’s criticisms. Having 
thought through the feedback very carefully, if you feel that the criticism 
is unjustified, be prepared to argue your case during the next tutorial. 
Finally, if you ask for feedback, be prepared to receive unexpected responses 
from time to time. I was once asked to comment on a written dissertation 
in which I noticed that the writing style was inconsistent. The writer began 
by using a simple, straightforward academic style in her first two chapters. 
Chapter  3, the methodology chapter, then adopted a completely differ-
ent style before inexplicably changing back again. It was as if the writer 
had suddenly changed personality. The end result was a rather pompous-
sounding, jargon-ridden piece of text (at least that is how it seemed to a 
non-specialist reader). 
When I pointed this out, the writer became upset. She had thought to 
herself that she needed to adopt a really serious style for this particular 
section explaining the foundations of her research. She claimed that other 
writers in the field (psychology) would do exactly the same and that there 
was almost a requirement to adopt a more serious tone when considering the 
important question of research foundations. My point was that she had asked 
for my honest feedback and I had provided it. Her point was that my feedback 
was both unhelpful and demoralizing. Such situations can occur at any point 
during the research process. Our response to negative feedback should be to 
consider it carefully on its merits, decide on our response and then move on. 
1.	 Consider how the time that you have available for writing can be broken 
down so that writing tasks can be allocated. Prepare two key documents 
to help with this: a monthly plan and a weekly schedule.
2.	Write a monthly plan as a mediation document for discussions with your 
supervisor and as a guide for the writing process. Be prepared to make 
changes as your research develops.
Action Points
Establishing Productive Writing Routines  115
3.	Maintain a weekly schedule for both reading and writing. Place this in a 
prominent place, consult it regularly and change it as required. Consider 
the times when you will be most productive and schedule the most 
demanding and complex writing accordingly.
4.	Specify quantitative writing targets with your supervisor. Adjust, as 
required.
5.	Pay attention to where you write and how you write so that effective 
writing routines may be developed and maintained.
6.	Build regular self-evaluation into the writing process. Identify problem 
areas and discuss them with your peers as well as supervisors. Make 
sure that you fully understand feedback from others. Clarify whenever 
this is necessary. Think carefully before responding to negative feedback. 
A defensive attitude may prevent you from fully appreciating other points 
of view.
116
8 Writing Clearly, Concisely 
and Coherently
This chapter
• 
identifies ways of achieving clarity and conciseness at sentence level
• 
proposes some principles relating to coherence at paragraph and 
chapter levels
• 
discusses ways of balancing the demands of academic style conven-
tions against the need for clarity 
  Clarity and coherence
One of the requirements of every PhD thesis is that you produce a text 
containing ideas that are communicated to your readers in a clear and coher-
ent way. At the same time, you are expected to write in a suitable academic 
style, determined partly by the discourse of your particular disciplinary area 
and partly by a perception of a more general academic style. 
The problem faced by all thesis writers is that clarity, coherence and 
style can easily enter into conflict with each other, with style acting as an 
obstacle to clarity. If taken to excess, the result can be texts that consist of 
turgid, impenetrable prose or pompous rhetoric. A further complication is 
that certain texts might be rejected by some readers on these grounds, while 
other readers may be prepared to accept a loss of clarity in favour of adher-
ence to stylistic conventions. 
When PhD supervisors in the UK talk about clarity and style, they may 
refer you to an essay written by George Orwell in 1946 (Politics and the 
English Language), in which he identifies what he considers to be the ‘mental 
vices’ that affect the clarity and coherence of writing: ‘dying metaphors’ 
(used without understanding their meaning), ‘verbal false limbs’ (phrases 
with redundant elements), ’pretentious diction’ and ‘meaningless words’. 
Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently  117
Orwell’s suggested rules for clear writing come at the end of his essay and 
act as a warning against overuse of metaphors and imagery, excessively 
complex words, redundant words and sentences, technical expressions that 
have an everyday equivalent and the use of the passive rather than the active 
voice. 
Rules such as these provide a simple prescription for all forms of writing 
and remain influential because of their creator’s status as a writer and as a 
public figure. For academic writing, working within varying stylistic conven-
tions and constraints, they might not provide the most useful or practical 
starting point: a more appropriate and more flexible set of guidelines will be 
required. 
Clarity at sentence level
Let us begin by considering the nature of ‘clear sentences’. Following the 
example of Williams (1995), this is probably best achieved by examining 
sample sentences that appear to lack clarity in some way. This may be expe-
rienced as partial or total incomprehensibility or as ambiguity of meaning. 
The language used may be considered unclear at word, phrase or sentence 
level. In some cases, the immediate context might help to clarify the meaning 
of the sentence, while in others it may not. 
The following sentences are taken from an adapted version of an essay 
written by a postgraduate student under the heading ‘The positive effects 
of correcting second language learner errors’ and are presented in the 
exact sequence in which they appear in a single paragraph within the text. 
The three sentences have been numbered for convenience. 
Box 8.1. Problems of clarity
(1) If it is necessary to have a close scrutiny of error correction in terms of 
second language learning, the process and purpose of learning the target 
language should be put in the foreground, so that the motivation of error 
correction from teachers would be more acceptable and accountable 
for learners. (2) Bartram (1991) stated that language learners should go 
through a series of long-term learning processes within a natural envi-
ronment in order to accumulate a great amount of language knowledge 
to attain a productive outcome. (3) During the periods of this process, 
the outcome produced might be a mirror of comprehension of language 
knowledge, but, more importantly, the feedback that teachers provide 
fosters the development of language learners. 
118  The PhD Writing Handbook
What do these sentences mean? How difficult is it to pinpoint the precise 
arguments that are being presented? The first sentence is certainly easier to 
understand if it is rewritten as follows:
Language teachers need to highlight the process and the purpose of learning 
certain target language items when focusing on error correction. This will 
help motivate learners to accept the correction of their errors. 
Why might this version be preferable? What changes have been applied to 
make it more accessible to the reader? It seems that the first version is more 
difficult for readers to understand because:
• 
the main action within the sentence, ‘to put in the foreground’ (more 
simply expressed as ‘to highlight’), is relatively hard to identify
• 
the main subject of the sentence ‘teachers’ or ‘language teachers’ is also 
hard to identify and is located towards the end rather than at the begin-
ning
• 
the use of the passive ‘be put in the foreground’ rather than the active 
‘put in the foreground’ or ‘highlight’ is a further complication that makes 
it more difficult for the reader to understand the logic of the sentence 
In taking these points into account, the rewritten version of the sentence 
places the main subject and the main action in the most prominent position 
possible – at the very beginning. Use of the passive is avoided as there is no 
apparently compelling reason to include it. Further problems of clarity in 
sentence 1 include the following:
• 
abstract nouns and adjectives such as ‘motivation’ or ‘acceptable’ are 
preferred to verbs (‘motivate’, ‘accept’)
• 
some of the language seems rather vague – what is meant, for instance, 
by expressions such as ‘the process and the purpose’ or ‘accountable for 
learners’? 
The first of these is a common phenomenon in academic texts. Some 
writers tend to bury important actions within abstract nouns, doing so intui-
tively rather than deliberately. Thus, ‘the motivation of error correction’ is 
preferred to ‘motivating learners when correcting their errors’. Creating a 
string of resonant abstract nouns can make the style of the text appear more 
formal and therefore ‘more academic’. However, if clarity is sacrificed in 
order to achieve this, there is a danger that the most important information 
will not be transmitted to the reader. 
Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently  119
As far as vague language is concerned, an important task at the editing 
stage will be to weed out any sources of obscurity or ambiguity. In this case, 
what precisely is meant by ‘if it is necessary to have a close scrutiny of error 
correction’? Could this be more clearly expressed by means of a verbal 
phrase such as ‘carefully examine ways in which teachers correct errors’? 
Arguably, vague language is also a problem in sentences 2 and 3 with the 
use of expressions such as ‘outcome’ (where this is not specified) or ‘long-
term learning processes’ (also unspecified). 
How would we respond as a reader if we came across sentence 1 as part 
of a text? A natural reaction would be to move on in the hope that in the 
next sentence ideas will become clearer. This solution will usually work in 
the case of a rogue aberrant sentence. If, however, every sentence is written 
in a similar style, the coherence of the text will break down since text level 
coherence begins with clarity at sentence level. If a writer persists in writing 
in this style, it is likely that the reader will get lost, and there will be further 
consequences which are outlined in the final section of this chapter. 
In the specific example given above, sentences 2 and 3 are not particu-
larly helpful in explaining sentence 1. Sentence 3 also appears difficult to 
decipher, raising certain questions:
• 
What ‘process’ is being referred to?
• 
What is the ‘outcome’ that is the subject of this sentence? Is it the ‘real 
subject’ in terms of meaning or simply the grammatical subject?
• 
How might this outcome act as ‘a mirror of comprehension of language 
knowledge’? 
To eliminate such sentences from the academic texts that we produce, it 
is sometimes necessary to ask questions with this level of detail. Williams 
(1995) proposes two simple principles that will help in this respect, summa-
rized below:
• 
Whoever/whatever has performed the most meaningful action should 
also be the grammatical subject of the sentence.
• 
The most meaningful action in the sentence should also (wherever 
possible) be the grammatical verb. 
However, there is an immediate problem when academic conventions in 
some disciplines are considered. Williams’ advice would entail using expres-
sions such as ‘I will argue …’, ‘I will show …’, ‘We may cite …’, using active 
rather than passive constructions in sentences and clearly establishing the 
identities of those who perform each action. Many academic disciplines, 
however, make consistent use of what is sometimes called ‘the institutional 
120  The PhD Writing Handbook
passive’. Rather than ‘I will demonstrate …’, ‘it will be demonstrated that …’ 
is preferred. Although ideas may seem less clear as a result, here is a 
convention that you may be obliged to consider if your writing is to meet the 
expectations of your readers. For an interesting and more detailed examina-
tion of how and why academic disciplines can vary in this respect, see the 
research conducted by Harwood (2005). 
Such examples demonstrate how clarity and style can be in opposition. 
How you deal with this conflict and achieve a suitable balance between them 
is an important aspect of your writing. Circumstances may dictate that in 
certain disciplines you will have less licence to be stylistically clear. In any 
area of inquiry, it is likely that you will have to observe certain conventions 
that will make clarity a little more difficult to achieve. 
Coherence at paragraph level
Having briefly considered some issues of clarity at sentence level, the next 
step is to ask yourself how your clear sentences can be combined into 
paragraphs in such a way that the ideas contained in them develop in a 
coherent manner. Williams (1995: 48) once again provides initial guidance. 
He suggests three principles, the first two of which are closely related: 
Put at the beginning of a sentence those ideas that you have already 
mentioned, referred to, or implied, or concepts that you can reasonably 
assume your reader is already familiar with, and will readily recognize. 
Put at the end of your sentence the newest, the most surprising, the most 
significant information: information that you want to stress – perhaps the 
information that you will expand on in your next sentence. 
These two principles describe a linear process, arguing that coherence in a 
text is more likely to be achieved if the beginning of each sentence is located 
in familiar territory. The flow of ideas can then be achieved by adding new 
information, which will become the starting point of the following sentence. 
The process might be summarized as ‘something old, something new’. 
However, such principles alone are unlikely to guarantee a coherent 
text. It is possible, for example, that you may find yourself embarking on an 
endless journey, with each new piece of information causing you to set off 
in a slightly different direction. There is no indication of how you might build 
arguments in a logical fashion or avoid circularity. For the two principles 
to work effectively, they must become subject to an overriding principle of 
coherence, which operates at whole-text level: 
A reader will feel that a paragraph is coherent if (s)he can read a sentence that 
specifically articulates its point. (Williams 1995: 97) 
Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently  121
Paragraphs can be considered the building blocks of all but the shortest texts. 
Each paragraph acts as a ‘unit of meaning’ which will add new information 
or fresh analysis to what has already been written. To achieve coherence 
both within and between paragraphs in the mind of the reader, sentences 
that make the main idea explicit can make a real difference. The reader will 
no longer need to wonder ‘what is this piece of text about?’ or ‘what is this 
author trying to tell me?’. The answer to such questions will be prominently 
displayed. Similarly, at the beginning of a chapter or of a research paper, 
articulating the main point(s) can contribute significantly to the overall 
coherence of the text. 
This does not necessarily mean a definitive statement of intent in the very 
first sentence of a paragraph or of a longer text. It does mean, however, that 
at an early stage you will need to clearly signal your intentions to the reader 
so that a sense of direction is established. Readers appreciate knowing 
where a text is heading and hold a reasonable expectation that they will not 
be kept in the dark. Writers, on the other hand, may enjoy creating a certain 
amount of suspense and may also fear spelling out their message too explic-
itly so as not to insult the reader. If you are finding it difficult to curb such 
tendencies, you may find it useful to repeat to yourself the words ‘when in 
doubt, spell it out’. 
How do the principles of clarity and coherence work when applied to 
academic writing? In terms of clarity at sentence level, a text that you 
produce can be carefully examined for potential problem areas. These might 
include examples of:
• 
unnecessarily long or complex sentences
• 
unnecessarily short disconnected sentences
• 
overuse of abstract nouns
• 
complex structures where grammar and meaning do not match
• 
repetition (unintentional and/or with no clear purpose)
• 
redundancy
• 
gratuitous jargon
• 
vagueness or ambiguity
• 
excessive imagery or obscurity 
In terms of coherence at paragraph level, your text could also be carefully 
examined for potential problem areas. These might include examples of:
• 
the main point of the text or its underlying purpose not being clear
• 
the main point of the text being hidden (for example, in the middle of a 
very long paragraph)
122  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
the main point of the text appearing very late, causing the reader to 
speculate on the direction of the arguments
• 
disconnection of ideas, where new arguments do not appear to follow 
logically from old ones
• 
circularity of argumentation, leading the reader back to point A rather 
than progressing smoothly to point B
• 
significant digressions which result in the reader losing sense of ­direction 
A fuller version of these checklists can be found in Chapter 13. Such ques-
tions can serve an important function in helping you monitor the progress 
of your writing with respect to its clarity and coherence levels. There is, 
however, a danger in taking self-criticism too far. Although sentence-level 
changes can provide greater ease of accessibility for the reader, the result 
could be a rather dull, less personalized piece of writing. You might even 
believe that in some ways the power of your own voice has been reduced 
and your ability to express yourself in a preferred style diminished. 
When considering issues relating to sentence-level clarity and expec-
tations of style, a useful exercise is to read certain sentences aloud. In 
the sample text above, for example, does ‘put in the foreground’ reso-
nate more than the simpler alternative ‘highlight’? As we have seen, 
it is possible to re-edit a text by eliminating examples of unnecessary 
imagery, repetition and redundancy. But would the text sound the same, 
and would we hear the writer’s voice as powerfully? These questions 
are worth further ­consideration before applying principles of clarity and 
coherence with total efficiency. The  extent to which academic writers 
should be allowed some latitude in this respect will be the theme of the 
next chapter. 
  The nature of coherence
Coherence and structure
At this point it is useful to provide a broader interpretation of the concept 
of coherence without reference to any guiding principles. In particular, 
structure and coherence need to be compared. To illustrate the difference 
between them, consider the following texts. The first is adapted from a text 
proposed by Enkvist (1990: 12); the second has been fabricated:
1.	 The net bulged with the force of the shot. The referee blew his whistle and 
signalled. Offside. The goalkeeper sighed with relief. The crowd started to 
jeer. Soon the slow handclapping started again. …
Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently  123
2.	 Soil is a serious problem in many countries. Besides, around 7 million 
hectares of fertile land are lost in the world each year. On the contrary, about 
10 million hectares of forest are being lost. Therefore, the consequences are 
indeed serious. … 
The interesting feature of the second text is that coherence actually appears 
to increase if some of the discourse markers such as ‘on the contrary’ are 
removed. This demonstrates that text markers that are intended to act as clear 
signposts to the reader may actually have the opposite effect. In the first text, 
where no overt signposts are included, the text is readily understandable and 
coherence can be recognized, provided that certain conditions are fulfilled. 
In the second text, the discourse markers are either redundant or misleading. 
What is happening in the second text is that a structure has been super-
imposed by means of discourse markers: ‘besides’ … ‘on the contrary’ … 
‘therefore’. The structure of the text thus seems clear, but this is not enough 
to achieve coherence. In contrast, the first text appears to achieve coherence 
without any clear structure. In fact, there is an inner structure available to the 
reader, but it is not explicit: the reader’s task is to make sense of this, while the 
writer’s task is to create the conditions to enable this to happen. To achieve 
coherence, it is not enough to divide a text into sections by using discourse 
markers such as ‘firstly’, ‘secondly’, ‘on the other hand’ or ‘moreover’.
In this respect I once had the difficult task of persuading a writer whose 
first language was Korean that ‘eighthly’ and ‘ninthly’ might not be suitable 
expressions to start a sentence within an academic text. His argument was 
that they highlighted his ideas and made them clearer. He was prepared to 
accept that this might contravene accepted style conventions and that it 
is inadvisable to write ‘seventhly’ or ‘fifthly’ under normal circumstances. 
However, the argument that this use of language also fails on the grounds 
of clarity – turning texts into lists of items – was met with more resistance. 
Returning to the first of our two texts, there needs to be a recognition that 
it is coherent only under certain conditions. Some background knowledge of 
what is taking place is required: in this case schematic knowledge of football 
(or possibly hockey), its vocabulary, rules and conventions. If this is present, 
then the text has coherence and the sequence of events can be followed. 
Otherwise, many of the events will be unclear: why, for instance, did the 
goalkeeper ‘sigh with relief’? And who is the goalkeeper? 
This is what coherence is about – applying our knowledge to enable 
ideas to emerge from a text in a meaningful way. Colomb and Griffin (2004) 
provide a useful explanation of what an absence of coherence might entail: 
It is hard to define coherence. We know it when we see it. And we know 
where it comes from. Coherent texts hang together. Their ideas are ­consistent. 
124  The PhD Writing Handbook
They stick to the topic. They have many ideas that hold the others in line. 
They don’t wander. They don’t have rogue parts that confuse us with their 
irrelevancies. 
While we may not be able to define ‘coherence’ clearly, there are certain 
characteristics that we recognize and that help us to make sense of a text. 
The same authors continue: 
Coherence is a mundane, largely invisible background to our own experience, 
emerging whenever our minds package what we perceive, imagine, or under-
stand neatly enough for us to manage it within the limits of our conscious 
capacities for attention and intention. So mundane is it, that we typically 
notice coherence only in its absence.
The argument that discourse markers can add to the coherence of a text is 
difficult to resist. Writers for whom English is a foreign language, such as 
my Korean student, have often been taught to use: ‘on the one hand … on 
the other hand …’ and other such phrases. These ‘linking expressions’ may 
be of some value as markers of coherence (as well as markers of structure) 
when used sparingly, but their use is in fact very subtle. If we attempt to add 
discourse markers to the first text, it becomes apparent that they are redun-
dant. A new version of the same text with the additional phrases underlined 
might be: 
First of all, the net bulged with the force of the shot. Shortly after this, the 
referee blew his whistle and signalled. Offside. The goalkeeper sighed 
with relief. Suddenly, the crowd started to jeer. Soon the slow handclap-
ping started again … 
Note how this begins to change the meaning of the text in the mind of the 
reader. The original sequence of events appears to be: a goal was scored … 
the referee disallowed it … the goalkeeper felt relieved … the crowd were 
unhappy … their unhappiness spread. There are some ambiguities, but we 
can recognize a sort of sequence, and we do not even realize that we are 
doing so. However, there is also a sense that some of the actions may be 
simultaneous rather than consecutive. With the use of rather clumsy struc-
tural markers, a more rigorous sequence of events is apparently imposed in 
which actions follow each other in systematic fashion. This impression is 
reinforced by the use of ‘first of all’ to begin the opening sentence. Previously 
only ‘soon’ fulfilled this type of role. 
To sum up, it seems that coherence is not necessarily achieved by the 
addition of structural labels. In the worst cases, these can actually confuse 
the reader, make the meaning unclear and the whole text less coherent. 
Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently  125
Coherence across cultures
Up to this point, we have assumed a shared understanding of the princi-
ples that underlie clear and coherent writing. However, in anticipating the 
expectations of our readers, can we always be certain that this is the case? If 
achieving coherence is dependent on our own experience, might an under-
standing of coherence be very different in other languages and in other 
cultures? The question is worth considering if we claim to be writing for an 
international audience. 
The prevailing academic culture in the UK (and arguably in the USA) 
appears to be one in which considerations of clarity and coherence override 
other aspects of writing. Hinds (1987) labels such cultures ‘writer responsi-
ble’ as opposed to ‘reader responsible’. In the former, there is an obligation 
on the part of the writer to make things clear while the reader is perceived to 
have a lesser responsibility in this respect. However, in other languages and 
associated cultures, the opposite may be true. In German academic texts, 
according to Siepmann (2006: 142), it is expected that the reader will share 
the writer’s subject knowledge. There is therefore no need to state explicitly 
why the content is significant or to highlight important arguments within a 
clearly defined hierarchy. In English academic texts, Siepmann argues that 
topic sentences ‘tend to control paragraph structure’, whereas in German the 
use of topic sentences is less frequent and there is no ‘unified model of para-
graph structure’ expected by readers. 
Meanwhile, Hatim (1997) cited in Connor (2002), claims that texts in 
Arabic may be heavy in what he terms through-argumentation, with argu-
ments and evidence presented in support of an initial thesis leading to a 
conclusion. He argues that the logic of this type of typical text is different 
from ‘Western argumentation’ which he believes places a strong focus on 
refuting counterarguments. 
Linguists such as Siepmann (in the case of German texts), Hinds 
(Japanese texts) or Hatim (Arabic texts) are the first to emphasize that cross-
cultural comparisons of coherence in texts should not lead to the conclu-
sion that the UK model is in any way logically superior. Instead, writers 
need to be aware that the expectations of their readers with respect to text 
coherence may be partly culturally determined and to be prepared for this 
eventuality. Here is a useful preparation task which may be of particular 
value in cases where:
• 
you will write your thesis in English even though it is not your first 
language
• 
you sense that perceptions of coherence may be different when compar-
ing English and your own first language 
126  The PhD Writing Handbook
  Coherence at chapter level
To conclude this chapter, I provide a summary of how coherence needs to 
be achieved and maintained in longer pieces of text. At the level of the thesis 
chapter, coherence can be achieved on a consistent basis by means of:
• 
main points and the writer’s position being articulated at the beginning
• 
headings and subheadings acting as clear indicators of content
• 
signposting within the text
• 
conciseness within the text that cuts out repetition and redundancy
• 
adherence to the ‘something old, something new’ principle
• 
clear paragraphing, with one idea per paragraph
• 
paragraph topic sentences
• 
interim summaries to reinforce arguments 
The consequences of not paying attention to these indicators of coherence 
can become increasingly serious:
1.	 The reader becomes confused and loses the thread of the argument. As this 
is a common experience when reading ‘difficult’ texts, the usual ­reaction 
Task 8.1: Comparing perceptions of coherence
Choose an academic text that has been translated from a language that is 
familiar to you and that you consider may present problems of coherence 
to the reader. A short research paper of three or four pages containing at 
least six paragraphs would be ideal. Now consider the following ques-
tions: 
1.  Is the main point or aim of the text clearly articulated?
2.  In which part of the text does the main point appear?
3.  To what extent do the following contribute to overall coherence? 
• headings and subheadings
• signposting and structural markers in the text
• paragraphing
• topic sentences introducing paragraphs
• the ending of the text 
4.  Which of these problem areas appear in the text? 
• disconnected arguments
• circular arguments
• significant digressions 
As a final step, find the original version of the text or produce your own 
translation. Do the same problem areas appear? Does the text appear to 
be more coherent in its original version than in the translation?
Writing Clearly, Concisely and Coherently  127
will be to try to work out why this has happened by referring to the 
immediate context of preceding and subsequent pieces of text.
2.	 The reader begins to feel cheated and misled by the writer if referring to 
the immediate context does not help. Frustration begins to grow.
3.	 The reader’s impatience increases as a direct result of constant re-reading 
of sentences and paragraphs in order to understand them and to refer 
them to a meaningful context.
4.	 The reader loses the plot and can no longer see where the text is leading.
5.	 The reader loses faith and gives up. At this point the reader may still not 
necessarily blame the writer, though the net effect will be the same irre-
spective of who is perceived to be at fault. 
Readers who are attempting to gain an understanding of a difficult text can 
go through all of these stages. If you see that your readers are showing such 
symptoms, then immediate action is required. The feedback that you receive 
from supervisors and other readers is crucial to achieving adequate levels of 
clarity and coherence even in a first draft. The way in which you interpret 
and understand their feedback is of equal importance. 
1.	 Ensure that individual sentences within your text are clear by checking 
that the main actions and the main subject are prominently highlighted.
2.	Ensure that paragraphs develop coherently by following the ‘something 
old, something new’ principle.
3.	Ensure that longer pieces of text develop coherently by articulating the 
main point at an early stage.
4.	Once a first draft of a chapter has been produced, check sentence clarity 
and paragraph coherence carefully.
5.	Be aware in both reading and writing that perceptions of coherence may 
differ across cultures. Reader expectations of coherence need to be 
considered.
Action Points
128
9 Developing Academic 
Style
This chapter 
• 
highlights an ongoing debate about ‘difficult texts’ and considers how 
style contributes to difficulty either intentionally or unintentionally
• 
provides examples of ‘difficult texts’ and categorizes them
• 
considers the balance between conventions of style and the need for 
clarity, conciseness and coherence 
  Expectations of academic style
Academic conventions
Attention to academic style tends to be associated with the editing rather 
than the first draft writing stage, but it is never too early to develop a finely 
tuned awareness of what is required. Writers need to develop the necessary 
skills for communicating within stylistic conventions even when writing 
early drafts. Ensuring that ideas are accessible to the reader, that sentences 
are clear and concise and that longer sections of text are coherent need to be 
counterbalanced by the fact that the writing that you produce has to look and 
sound academic, whatever that might mean in your particular disciplinary 
area or areas. 
The first step will be for you to revisit the kind of stylistic conventions that 
are likely to be familiar to doctoral level writers. These include referencing 
techniques and formats, the amount of direct quotation that is deemed accept-
able and bibliographical conventions. Such issues will not be considered 
in this book, because of the difficulty of providing any form of meaning-
ful non-disciplinary guidelines. A useful overview of referencing systems, 
formats, techniques and reference software is, however, provided by Grix & 
Watkins (2010). 
Developing Academic Style  129
There remains one convention that does need to be considered outside a 
disciplinary context, that of ‘hedging’ claims and arguments. In the following 
fabricated example from Chapter 2, the hedged expressions are underlined: 
We suggest that the recent social unrest in rural communities in France 
may possibly be due to problems which predate the recent arrival of wealthy 
Britons acquiring holiday homes.
According to Holliday (2002: 180) citing Dudley-Evans and St John (1998), 
there are two major functions of hedging. The first is ‘distancing’ the writer 
from the ideas that are being presented. The second function is ‘softening’ 
language: 
If a writer criticizes another by saying, ‘Jones appears not to have under-
stood the point I was making’, the use of appears mitigates the criticism and 
is a politeness device rather than a distancing device. 
Achieving an appropriate tone for claims is not an easy task. In Chapter 2, 
I presented some examples of how hedging can be taken too far. The more 
tentative the assertion, the less clear it can become. Even at doctoral level, 
writers can find it difficult to avoid an element of ambiguity. 
Useful guidelines for hedging in research writing can be found on the 
websites of many UK universities. See, for example, the practical advice 
provided by Birkbeck College, University of London (Appendix 1). This is 
of particular interest since it includes ideas that appear at first glance to 
be contradictory. To hedge is said to involve using ‘evasive or deliberately 
vague language’ while at the same time being ‘confidently uncertain’. What 
could this and other aspects of hedging mean in different academic disci-
plines? I received these responses from a group of PhD researchers in a 
recent thesis writing class: 
Box 9.1. Hedging across disciplines
•	 In law there is a great need not to be woolly. But what about talking 
about someone who may or may not be guilty and you are not quite 
sure? You add ‘allegedly’, and this is hedging.
•	 The problem is that there is often an assumption that a claim is 
either yes or no. In journalism, this may be true (except for ‘allegedly’ 
perhaps?) But to say something is true and to suggest it may be true 
are two different propositions.
➔
130  The PhD Writing Handbook
Being ‘confidently uncertain’ implies that you can hedge without being 
excessively vague and that hedging is a clear recognition that there may be 
some form of ambiguity or doubt associated with a statement that you are 
making. You can be ‘confidently uncertain’ with your position being that you 
may not be 100 per cent or even 50 per cent sure – you might instead be 
confident in one out of three or four instances. Whatever your discipline, you 
will need to think carefully about the force of the claims that you make and 
the language used to express them. Hyland (1995) points out that even in 
natural science disciplines, where precision and rigour are considered to be 
paramount, the expression of tentativeness through hedging is an essential 
component of academic style, one that is expected and valued by readers. 
Style and stylishness
For some writers, expectations of academic style become confused with the 
notion of stylishness or elegance in writing. Sword (2012: 35) argues that 
‘elegant ideas deserve elegant expression’ and sees disciplinary norms or 
expectations of style as actually working against this. She provides a useful 
image to bear in mind – that of an academic writer whose prose seems turgid 
and indigestible even though the arguments presented appear to be sound. 
In such cases, she claims that it is possible to predict with a certain degree of 
confidence that the text will have the following characteristics:
• 
an impersonal voice involving use of the passive rather than first-person 
singular ‘I’ or first-person plural ‘we’
• 
failure to engage in a direct conversation with the reader (no use of 
‘you’)
• 
strings of abstract nouns used to convey important information within 
sentences 
In some ways, the debate about stylishness begun by Orwell (see Chapter 8) 
and continued by Sword has obscured the real issue. For most PhD theses 
elegant prose is desirable but not essential: the writer’s most important task 
is surely to produce a text that meets expectations of clarity and coherence 
•	 History is quite interesting because there are certain things that are 
not disputed. But there are certain ‘facts’ that we consider to be undis-
puted but in actually can be disputed. What illnesses did Richard III 
suffer from? Or Tutankhamen? There are all kinds of theories.
•	 Nothing can ever be beyond the shadow of a doubt in arts and human-
ities subjects.
Developing Academic Style  131
  Expectations of difficulty
I am wondering how to write this essay. Will I be intelligible or not? And if I am 
intelligible, does that mean that I have succeeded? And if I am not quite intel-
ligible, or if I am unintelligible, then will that be a failure of ­communication? 
These lines provide the introduction to an article entitled ‘The Values of 
Difficulty’ by Judith Butler, an eminent American scholar and philosopher, in 
response to criticism of her particular style of writing. In fact, the article forms 
part of a collection of essays (Culler and Lamb 2003) in which writers from 
different disciplinary areas appear to defend themselves against accusations 
of obscurity, impenetrability and stylistic excess. In most cases this involves 
a discussion of the nature of clarity in writing and in particular the role of the 
reader in the process of meaningful communication. As McCumber, one of 
while looking and sounding ‘academic’. When writers struggle to express 
themselves using academic language in a suitable style, guidelines for stylish 
or elegant prose do not provide a real solution. PhD supervisors who quote 
from Orwell may be well-intentioned, but they are arguably not providing the 
kind of advice that will really help. 
It is also worth noting from the above quotation that this interpretation of 
elegance assumes adherence to certain conventions, such as the use of ‘I’ or 
‘we’ rather than use of passive constructions. Unfortunately, writers in some 
disciplinary areas are denied this option. In the next section, we will consider 
in more detail what constitutes a suitable academic style across a number of 
disciplines, together with an analysis of what is acceptable in terms of diffi-
culty and complexity as opposed to clarity of language. 
Box 9.2. The ‘Writer’s Diet’
Helen Sword has created the ‘Writer’s diet’ website (http://writersdiet.
com/) as a tool for writers to assess the stylishness of their own writing. 
Upload a short section of text to see whether your writing is ‘lean and 
mean’ or ‘flabby’ and needing to go on some kind of diet. You will 
receive a rating for your use of verbs, nouns, prepositions, adjectives, 
adverbs and ‘weak words’ – for example, is/this/that. A full diagnosis 
gives advice in problem areas. The website is perhaps most useful as a 
means of comparing samples of your own writing to check for stylistic 
consistency since it will highlight sudden changes. 
132  The PhD Writing Handbook
the contributors, puts it, ‘My words are not clear until you have understood 
what I meant by them.’ 
Every now and then this kind of debate resurfaces. As far back as 1971, 
Andreski, a professor of sociology, published a book which focused on 
opaque and pretentious writing in the social sciences, which were then 
considered relatively new and arguably bent on attaining credibility in ‘scien-
tific’ terms. Later, the issue came to the attention of a wider public with 
the publication of a hoax article (Sokal 1996) in which a physics professor 
at New York University deliberately submitted an article to the academic 
journal Social Text. His aim was to demonstrate that a certain kind of writing 
that looked credible on the surface and followed established disciplinary 
conventions in terms of style and presentation could be accepted for publica-
tion even when the content was fraudulent. As soon as the article had been 
published, Sokal revealed the hoax and denounced the journal for its inabil-
ity to distinguish between genuine scholarship and nonsense hidden beneath 
a veil of imposing and resonant language. 
During the same period, Dennis Dutton, the editor of the Philosophy 
and Literature journal, began a much publicized ‘bad writing contest’ (see 
Appendix 1). According to its instigator, the contest celebrates ‘the most 
stylistically lamentable passages found in scholarly books and articles 
published in the last few years’. Judith Butler was the 1998 winner for one 
94-word sentence containing 28 abstract nouns taken from a 1997 article 
entitled ‘Further Reflections on the Conversations of Our Time,’ in the Diacritics 
scholarly journal. 
Butler responded in a 1999 New York Times article entitled ‘A “Bad Writer” 
Bites Back’ in which she claimed that criticisms of her writing style might 
be politically motivated. At the same time, she acknowledged that there 
was a serious question to be considered, namely why certain ideas appear 
to require difficult and demanding language to get the message across. 
She also considered that it was unfair to ridicule one sentence taken out of 
context, an argument that many others might agree with. 
 More recently, in 2006, the author and academic Germaine Greer 
published an article in the Guardian in which she rejected criticism of her 
use of the expression ‘the unsynthesised manifold’ in an article intended 
for a general readership (Appendix 1). Of the hundreds of readers who 
commented on this online article, an approximate split of 60/40 per cent can 
be detected between those who felt offended by Greer’s apparently conde-
scending tone and those who supported her stance in defending the use of 
difficult language to express difficult ideas. An article written by Caroline 
Levine published in the Times Higher Education Supplement in 2007, ‘The Art 
of the Impenetrable’, also reflects both sides of the debate and provides a 
Developing Academic Style  133
recognition of the fact that it has widened, no longer being the preserve of 
a few individual academics with scores to settle. More recently, Billig (2013) 
has devoted an entire book to the question of what constitutes poor quality 
writing in the social sciences. This author argues that there is an increas-
ing tendency for researchers to self-promote through academic texts as 
academic life becomes more and more competitive. The overuse of jargon 
and excess of rhetoric are thus ways of making a writer’s presence felt more 
strongly and their voice heard more loudly. 
Further evidence of widening recognition of difficulty in academic writing 
can be found in the advice given to students in the most recent edition of the 
Chicago guide for students writing college papers: 
When you struggle to understand some academic writing (and you will), 
don’t blame yourself, at least at first. Diagnose its sentences. If they have 
long subjects stuffed with abstract nouns, expressing new information, the 
problem is probably not your inability to read easily, but the writer’s inability 
to write clearly. (Turabian et al. 2010: 137) 
From the above examples, it can be seen that this longstanding debate is 
likely to continue and that there is a clear divide between two opposing 
camps. The arguments of the critics of stylistic excess (for example, Andreski 
1971, Dutton 1999) could be summarized as follows: 
1.	 Academic writers should aim to make complex ideas accessible in a 
jargon-free way.
2.	 Academic writers have a duty to promote clarity and coherence in their 
writing.
3.	 Experienced academic writers should set a good example so that the 
importance of clarity is seen to outweigh stylistic considerations.
4.	 Even the most difficult ideas can be expressed in relatively clear language. 
Meanwhile, those who respond to such criticisms (see Culler and Lamb 2003) 
use a range of interesting counterarguments, some of which are listed here:
1.	 Clarity is relative (and it can be culturally determined).
2.	 Criticism of stylistic excess is often politically or personally motivated.
3.	 New ideas or ways of thinking ought not to be constrained by ‘old’ 
conventions.
4.	 Readers must share responsibility with writers for communicating 
meaning.
5.	 Difficulty is an essential part of critical thinking.
134  The PhD Writing Handbook
6.	 Conventional writing is ‘dull’.
7.	 Difficult ideas can only be expressed by difficult language.
8.	 In some cultures, a sophisticated style is a mark of erudition. 
  Classifying ‘difficult texts’
The question arises as to how you should respond to the problems created 
by stylistically difficult texts when reading, and then how you can ensure 
that inappropriate stylistic excess is avoided when it is your turn to write. 
A useful first step might be to analyse the nature of the difficulty by divid-
ing texts (for convenience) into distinct groups. Then, in each case, it will 
be useful to formulate guidelines for situations in which similar texts might 
need to be attempted. Your aim is always to enable stylistic considerations 
to be carefully balanced against the requirements for clarity, coherence and 
conciseness in a PhD thesis.
Group 1: Texts containing complex subject matter
The theoretical or abstract content of certain texts may give the impression 
that the language used to express ideas is stylistically difficult, but this may 
not be the case. The primary intention of the writer of such texts is to clarify 
knowledge and ideas either for a broader educated public or a more special-
ized readership. The writing may involve the use of technical expressions, 
but these do not appear to act as a smokescreen. 
The language and structure of such texts are not the main source of their 
difficulty. If technical terminology is used, this is through necessity and not 
the result of stylistic excess. Guidelines for producing this type of text may 
include the following:
• 
Make sure that key concepts are fully explained and explored within the 
text, in footnotes or by referring to another section of the thesis.
• 
Avoid the use of technical jargon wherever possible. Provide an entry 
for technical terminology in a glossary if you expect that some of your 
readers may have problems understanding it.
• 
Avoid the use of quotations which will add to the complexity of the text. 
Use only those quotations that will help to clarify the arguments being 
presented.
• 
Pay particular attention to expectations and rules of coherence and text 
structure. 
Group 2: Texts written in an idiosyncratic style
This category suggests that some writers adopt idiosyncrasies in their 
writing, consciously or unconsciously, in order to challenge the reader’s way 
Developing Academic Style  135
of thinking and acceptance of established stylistic conventions. This can 
apply to writers who deliberately choose unexpected words, use unusual 
descriptions, break up words (‘geo-graphy’, ‘dis-ease’), invent new words 
or make frequent use of ‘scare quotes’ showing that certain expressions 
are being used in a nonstandard or an ironic way by adding either single or 
double inverted commas. The intention in such cases may be to shock the 
reader out of conventional thinking, to enliven prose that may otherwise 
appear dull or perhaps even to communicate more effectively in an unor-
thodox way. This consideration has sometimes been used as a defence of 
difficult writing. Judith Butler (1999) claims, for example, that she wants to 
challenge conventional thinking. In her view academic writing should be 
‘difficult and demanding’ in order to ‘question common sense’. 
The following advice may be useful when dealing with ‘idiosyncratic 
texts’ as a reader or when you are considering integrating extracts from such 
texts or the style that they employ into your own writing:
• 
Although you may feel inspired to emulate the distinctive style of 
certain writers who have published extensively, there are clear dangers 
in producing texts that place great emphasis on challenging existing 
conventions. In the course of your academic career, you may develop 
your own clearly ­identifiable style. For a PhD thesis, existing conventions 
and reader expectations must be prioritized. This does not, however, 
imply that you are forced to write in a highly constrained way, adopting 
a style that may feel completely alien to you.
• 
You will need to take great care when including extracts from ‘idiosyn-
cratic texts’ written by other authors within your own work. Ensure that 
you provide a clear interpretation of the arguments being presented: 
it may be unwise to assume that your interpretation will automatically be 
understood or shared by your readers.
• 
Devices such as ‘scare quotes’ need to be used in moderation. Frequent 
use will slow down readers, leading them to question and think too care-
fully about every single concept that is highlighted in this way. If this is 
not your intention, remove sets of quotation marks that are unnecessary. 
Group 3: Translated texts
Texts which are translated from another language into English present a 
particular set of problems, especially in cases where the content is quite 
abstract. Such texts may sound uncomfortable in English despite the best 
efforts of translators. 
According to Steiner (1975) each language ‘maps the world differently’. 
As a result, certain terms may lose their intended meaning in the first 
136  The PhD Writing Handbook
language when translated. Wierzbicka (1997) has examined a range of more 
abstract terms across several languages and shown how their meaning may 
vary across cultures. She notes that ‘philosophers, political scientists, and 
students of law are usually aware of the untranslatability of more or less 
technical concepts such as “bail”, “warrant”, “custody”, “solipsism”, “deter-
minism”, “parliament”, “oath”, and “democracy”’. Her study focuses on some 
nontechnical concepts expressed by English words such as ‘freedom’, which 
she explains in some detail are understood differently in Latin, English, 
Russian and Polish. 
Further problems arise when writers are highly idiosyncratic in the first 
language in terms of style and choice of words. This may be virtually impos-
sible to render effectively in another language. While not all translated texts 
present such levels of difficulty, it is useful to consider the following guide-
lines for using any translated extracts that need to be incorporated within 
your own PhD thesis:
• 
You will need to take steps to satisfy yourself that the translated extract 
is faithful to the original version. If there is any doubt in this matter, it is 
better not to include the extract.
• 
If any words or expressions in the extract are unclear or ambiguous, 
convey your own interpretation to the reader as clearly and as concisely 
as possible. This can be in the form of a footnote if you prefer to avoid 
digressions in your text.
Group 4: ‘Intentionally difficult’ texts
In this category, we can place texts that show deliberate ambiguity or 
camouflaging of a lack of ideas by over-complex language. While idiosyn-
cratic writing may be intentional in shocking the reader out of complacent 
thinking, or unintentional in its difficulty, texts in the ‘intentionally difficult’ 
category may deliberately sacrifice clarity in order to give an impression of 
sophistication. The following may be some of the features of such texts:
• 
long sentences
• 
complexity of grammatical structure of sentences – for example, those 
containing multiple clauses or those where the subject is separated from 
the verb
• 
the choice of obscure words to convey simple meanings
• 
abstraction that appears to cover up lack of substantial ideas
• 
overuse of unnecessary ‘scare quotes’ or words in parentheses
• 
‘name-dropping’ – overuse of source references to create a positive 
impression
Developing Academic Style  137
• 
excessive use of repetition, redundancy, side-tracking and exemplification
• 
illogical sequencing of facts or ideas 
One writer who might be placed in this category is the anthropologist 
Stephen Tyler. Paul Stoller has compared his writing to ‘a mangrove swamp’ 
containing ‘a profusion of Greek terms … a profusion of neologisms … a 
profusion of ironic syntax’ (Stoller 1991: 105, cited by Lukas 1999: 10). Tyler’s 
initial response (in an interview with Lukas) was that he does not consider 
his own writing particularly difficult but maintains that it might perhaps be 
difficult for those who expect the kind of writing that occurs in most anthro-
pological texts. He goes on to claim that if most readers were able to under-
stand him, he would consider that he had failed as a writer and that if writers 
are allowed to challenge other conventions, then conventions of clarity and 
coherence should not be exempt from this process. When some writers say 
to themselves, ‘I want to write in a difficult way’, they should in his view be 
respected for doing so. 
If a writer claims that deliberate difficulty has a subversive purpose, we 
are therefore led to assume that there is a certain kind of integrity behind 
this way of thinking. However, there is some evidence that academics in 
some fields resort to this kind of writing in order to gain credibility and even 
become publishable. One entrant in the previously mentioned ‘bad writing 
contest’ (cited by Myers 2005) believes that getting published in many jour-
nals means: 
flinging the jargon, toeing the party line (which is somewhere to the left of 
gibberish), and quoting the usual suspects (Benjamin, Foucault, Derrida, 
Said, Jameson, Butler, etc.). I’m often appalled by my own writing, but since 
jargon, rather than substance, gains a publication, I succumb to verbiage. 
Every discipline creates its own specialist terms. However, it is possible to 
camouflage obvious, common-sense observations with jargon that suggests 
something deeper than the actual meaning of what is being conveyed. It is 
not clear whether Butler, Tyler and other authors would reject some kinds of 
writing on the grounds of stylistic excess and, if so, what criteria they would 
use. It may not always be easy to distinguish what is deliberately opaque 
from the idiosyncratic writing that was identified in the second category. 
The question raised by examples within this fourth category is whether it 
would be worth making the effort to make sense of them at all and whether 
we should just accept that fact that some writers are happy to exclude a 
large number of readers, thus limiting the possibility of debating the issues 
presented. 
138  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
Identify complex structures: one long complex sentence can be converted 
into two simple statements, such as ‘The increase in business activity in 
urban areas can transform the labour market. This in turn can provide 
new opportunities in different sectors’.
• 
Avoid jargon: find substitute words or expressions for ‘catalyse action 
potentials’.
• 
Convert abstract nouns and adjectives: ‘transformational processes’ 
becomes ‘transform’.
• 
Simplify abstract nouns and adjectives: ‘the augmented momentum’ 
becomes ‘the increase’.
• 
Reduce redundancy: ‘the augmented momentum and accompanying 
interactive dynamics of business activity’ become ‘the increase in busi-
ness activity’. 
For PhD thesis writers, stylistic excess is not a realistic option. Rephrasing 
problem texts, instead, so that they are expressed more clearly can be a 
useful guiding exercise. Consider, for example, the following fabricated 
example. What changes could be made? 
Box 9.3. Simplifying a complex text
The augmented momentum and accompanying interactive dynamics of 
business activity in urban areas engender transformational processes in 
the labour market that can catalyse action potentials in emerging niches 
of opportunity in a varied multiplicity of sectors. 
Box 9.4. A revised version of the complex text
The increase in business activity in urban areas can transform the labour 
market. This in turn can provide new opportunities in different sectors. 
If a single problematic sentence can be improved in five different ways, it is 
evident that longer pieces of text may benefit from this kind of approach. The 
sentence clarity checklist provided in Chapter 8 may be used for this purpose 
when editing and revising a first draft text. 
Developing Academic Style  139
Group 5: Mixed-styles texts
Some writers appear to be inconsistent in their use of academic style, seem-
ingly switching in and out of ‘different tones of voice’. This is surprisingly 
common and may involve:
• 
the inclusion of complex or inappropriate quotations from other authors
• 
the inclusion of complex or ambiguous concept diagrams in an other-
wise clear text
• 
passages of narrative which are accessible to the reader but that contrast 
with passages of analysis which are less so 
For an interesting example of this type of text, see Chapter  2 of Zygmunt 
Bauman’s ‘Liquid Love’ (2003) – in which the author discusses ways in which 
‘virtual and non-virtual proximity’ have changed places, with the virtual 
variety becoming stronger as people all over the world make use of mobile 
technology. In this text, passages of straightforward narrative alternate with 
denser, more complex paragraphs of analysis. An effective strategy might 
be for the reader to consider the narrative passages first, proceeding then to 
the more difficult paragraphs in which the voices of other writers join in the 
debate. However, this would mean changing the order in which the para-
graphs are intended to be read. 
 What can be learned from the five categories of ‘difficult text’ concerning 
the development of your own academic style? I suggest the following:
• 
Reader expectations are paramount: Writers should certainly be allowed 
and encouraged to adopt a style with which they are comfortable, but the 
expectations of readers cannot be ignored if effective communication is 
to be achieved.
• 
Expectations of style may vary: If you are working in more than one disci-
plinary area with doctoral supervisors from those different areas, it is 
possible that you may receive conflicting messages concerning accept-
able style. Ultimately, you must decide in consultation with all the people 
concerned – will I adopt style A or style B?
• 
Adherence to a particular style needs to be consistent: Any changes in style 
will have to be fully justified. In the case of the Bauman text referred to 
above, the change in style does help make the arguments clearer through 
illustration. There is a judicious switch from a more complex academic 
style to a simple narrative. However, if there is no clear rationale for chang-
ing the writing style, this can confuse and irritate readers in equal measure.
• 
Stylistic excess is counterproductive: Think carefully, for example, before 
adding a quotation in order to impress your readers. If a quotation 
140  The PhD Writing Handbook
helps to clarify meaning or adds weight to an argument, then it can be 
included. If it distracts from your message, leave it out. Think carefully 
also about the use of the words used to express the most important ideas 
that you wish to convey. If your ideas are hidden behind a veil of stylistic 
excess, you will not only make the reader’s task more difficult but also 
(perhaps) give a distinct impression that the resonance of your rhetoric is 
a means of disguising a lack of ideas. 
In conclusion, you should indeed have a degree of freedom to make deci-
sions about your preferred writing style. However, you will need to show at 
all times that you are aware of stylistic conventions and the kind of language 
that academics in your field would normally use. You should not feel impris-
oned by the constraints of stylistic conventions. Consider them as a guide to 
help you achieve a shared language between yourself and other academic 
writers in your field. They should never be called upon to justify the produc-
tion of turgid, impenetrable prose.
1.	 Familiarize yourself with the workings of cross-disciplinary academic 
style conventions, such as ‘hedging’. Familiarize yourself also with 
­discipline-specific style conventions. Consult any style guides that are 
available in your area, and be aware of how style is used in ­well-regarded 
‘model’ texts.
2.	In your reading, respond to stylistically difficult texts by analysing the 
causes.
3.	In your writing, ensure that inappropriate stylistic excess is avoided. 
Checklists such as those provided in Chapters 8 and 9 can help in this 
respect.
4.	Check written chapters for stylistic inconsistencies. Once you have 
settled on a suitable balance between clarity and style that works for 
you and for your readers, check your work for stylistic consistency. 
Be prepared to justify any changes in style that may not conform to 
reader expectations.
5.	Make a note to remind yourself to make any necessary adjustments 
when chapters are being edited.
Action Points
141
10 Completing a First Draft
This chapter 
• 
considers the challenges of producing a first draft of 80,000–100,000 
words
• 
compares the experience of writing down ideas for the first time with 
the editing process where the aim is to revise, correct and polish 
  The basic writing cycle
So far in this handbook we have discussed the planning of research writing 
in terms of its structure (Chapter 6) and the ways in which productive writing 
routines can be developed (Chapter 7). The delicate balance between clarity, 
coherence and academic style has also been explored (in Chapters 8 and 9). 
Structure, clarity, coherence and (to a lesser extent) style are all important 
elements of first draft writing, which is arguably the most demanding task 
for any research writer. In contrast, many would argue that text editing is a 
smoother and more enjoyable process. The author James Michener shares 
this point of view and is often quoted as claiming to be less able as a writer 
than as a rewriter. 
I find writing the first draft of any academic text to be a painful, messy and 
time-consuming process. The primary aim is to commit all of the content 
and the argumentation to screen or paper in a structured and coherent 
manner. Once a significant amount of content has been written down in 
some form, the process of reallocating sections of text can begin. You can, 
for example, plan Chapter 3 but then realize that it lacks a certain amount of 
substance; it can be reallocated as a section or subsection within Chapter 4. 
You may scrutinize your plan for Chapter 5 and conclude that the text will be 
straightforward to write; it then grows steadily in size to such an extent that 
you have to consider dividing it into two or three new chapters, or sections 
that will fit into existing chapters. 
142  The PhD Writing Handbook
This process of reallocating text forms an integral part of the first draft 
writing process. The reason for this is simple: while you are attempting to 
put into practice an initial plan, you will discover that your thinking is likely 
to change. For this reason it seems inadvisable and possibly even danger-
ous to work single-mindedly on one chapter until it has reached the point 
where it has been completed and thoroughly polished. By the time you 
have finished (for example) Chapter 5, you may be forced to reconsider the 
content of earlier chapters. Many research writers fail to appreciate the need 
for flexibility at this stage: as your thinking changes, so will your writing. 
The problem can be exacerbated by the demands of readers, whether they 
are publishing editors, PhD supervisors or your colleagues. A long first draft 
may not be the preferred option for certain readers who would like you to 
submit individual chapters in a manageable and orderly way. In such circum-
stances, it may be tempting to try to perfect certain chapters even when 
being aware of the potential pitfalls of this type of approach. 
Other important elements within the cycle of first draft writing will include 
the following:
• 
how to evaluate a first draft once it has been written
• 
how to receive quality feedback
• 
how to vary the sources of feedback
• 
how to re-plan and revise text in response to feedback
• 
how to edit an acceptable first draft 
Later sections of this chapter will examine all of these in greater detail. 
  Managing reader expectations
Arguably, one of the most important principles in first draft writing is the 
concept of ‘managing the expectations of readers’, a principle briefly intro-
duced in Chapter 6. This is an intuitive process for many skilled and expe-
rienced research writers. As a writer, you attempt to enter the mind of the 
reader, trying to think consistently about how readers will understand your 
text and then writing with such readers in mind. This appears to be a funda-
mental aspect of becoming a skilled creator of lengthy research texts. In the 
case of a PhD thesis, it will not just be the reader’s problem if your text is 
inaccessible. If you are unable to connect with your reader, the thesis may 
have to be substantially revised or completely rewritten. 
How can you anticipate what readers will expect and then successfully 
manage those expectations? An immediate problem is that expectations 
Completing a First Draft  143
may vary across disciplines and perhaps among individuals within a single 
disciplinary area. However, within the UK academic culture, a set of core 
expectations can be identified, including the following:
• 
the production of a carefully written abstract telling the reader ‘this is 
what you can expect when you start to read this work’
• 
the production of a well-crafted table of contents that will guide readers 
through the overall structure and sequencing of your work
• 
clear section and subsection headings
• 
careful attention being paid to the introductory sections of chapters, 
concluding sections and interim conclusions
• 
careful attention being paid to signposting within the rest of the text 
All of these indicate to the reader that ‘these are the directions in which I will 
lead you’. Your readers may be experts in their field, but they will still require 
some guidance in this respect. 
Signalling and signposting: topic sentences
Even within a first draft, you will need to consider how you will signal your 
intentions to the reader through the means of clear signposts. There are two 
well-established ways of signalling your intentions: the first involves the 
use of topic sentences, propositions that are explained and explored within a 
paragraph, while the second consists of the use of explicit discourse markers 
specially selected to link pieces of text together. I will argue that the use of topic 
sentences is generally the preferable option on the grounds that such sentences 
are connected to text structure, to paragraphing and to underlying coherence. 
Formulaic discourse markers or ‘linking expressions’, on the other hand, tend 
to be markers of structure only (see Chapter 8 for further discussion of this). 
An interesting example of how topic sentences can be made to work 
effectively is to be found in these extracts from the opening chapter of a first 
draft PhD thesis written by a historian: 
Box 10.1. The Rev Isaac and Mrs Ann Taylor: 
Family, Faith, Profession
Paragraph 1: In 1778 when Isaac Taylor II met his future wife Ann Martin, 
the daughter of a pawnbroker, he was 19 years old, apprenticed as an 
engraver to his father having been unable to fulfil his ambition to become 
a minister, and engaged to a member of a prominent ­nonconformist 
➔
144  The PhD Writing Handbook
family, 10 years his senior. All other information surrounding the origins 
of this successful nonconformist literary family, the Taylors of Ongar, 
were excluded by family members with the exception of …
Paragraph 2 : In the mid to late nineteenth century as part of their literary 
output members of the Taylor family produced a series of autobiogra-
phies, biographies and recollections for journals and magazines. These 
writings have subsequently been used to …
Paragraph  3 : Above all the memoirs reveal much new information on 
Mrs Ann Martin Taylor, whose literary reputation has been constrained 
by the stereotypical portrait constructed of her as a conservative, evan-
gelical literary figure based on the limited information available in 
published family memoirs … .
End of Paragraph  3 : From the information now available through the 
memoirs, combined with other primary source materials including 
letters and church records, a much more complex and intriguing picture 
emerges from the generalized stereotypes that have been constructed 
around the Taylor family of Ongar. 
Paragraph 4 : For both Rev Isaac Taylor II and Mrs Ann Taylor the early 
years of their lives spent in London provided seminal experiences that, 
it will be argued, had a significant influence on the development of the 
family ethos and their literary careers. During Rev Isaac Taylor’s early 
life … .
Well-crafted topic sentences guide the reader clearly and effectively. They 
tend to appear at the very beginning of paragraphs as a clear statement of 
intent. This is the case in the abbreviated sample text above concerning the 
literary output of the Taylors of Ongar: 
Paragraph  1 opens with the only definite public information that exists 
concerning the Taylor family. This leads into a discussion of why this is the 
case and how other information has been made widely available. 
Paragraph 2 draws attention to a particular set of memoirs produced by 
the family. This leads into discussion of how these memoirs throw new light 
on their literary activities. 
Paragraph  3 highlights one particular aspect of the information that is 
now available from the Taylor memoirs – the literary output of Mrs Ann 
Taylor. This leads on to the claim that a more complex appreciation of her 
work is required, questioning the rather stereotypical portrait produced by 
other writers. 
Completing a First Draft  145
Paragraph 4 turns our attention to the early life of the two main protago-
nists – Isaac and Ann Taylor. The narrative then continues along this track. 
Note how each topic sentence carefully guides the reader, providing a 
clear starting point for the development of each piece of the narrative and 
accompanying analysis. Paragraph beginnings achieve this effect throughout 
the whole of the chapter. However, the most interesting claim, that ‘a much 
more complex and intriguing picture emerges from the generalized stereo-
types’ appears at the end of a paragraph rather than at the beginning. This 
is not uncommon in a well-structured and coherent text. It seems that topic 
sentences do not need to appear at the beginning of a paragraph to achieve 
the desired levels of clarity within a text. Readers may reasonably expect 
either alternative. 
When important information or arguments are placed in the middle of 
even a short piece of text, however, they will tend to be less noticeable. As a 
result, the text will usually be less easy to understand and its ‘flow’ will be 
broken as the reader begins to re-read sections containing important infor-
mation that has been missed. When topic sentences appear in places that 
can be expected, the reader will be more likely to stay on track. When topic 
sentences are hidden in unexpected places, the coherence of the text in the 
mind of the reader can be greatly affected. 
The power of topic sentences lies in their ability to glue text together, to 
help us to understand and to help us to anticipate where a text is going. If at 
some point we lose direction, it means the glue is probably spread too thinly. 
If the glue is strong enough, it will carry the reader, enabling them to follow 
and read very quickly; where the glue does not exist, the reader will be forced 
to re-read many times. By pulling out and highlighting the topic sentences, a 
reader can make sense of a piece of text, even one where complex ideas are 
being presented and discussed. In addition, if we use topic sentences as a 
framework, we can build up our own writing so that coherence is achieved. 
First draft writing is about content and committing ideas to paper or screen, 
but it is also about achieving coherence. We cannot leave issues related to 
coherence to be dealt with only during the editing stage. 
  Drafting and redrafting
I keep going back to my drafts and thinking about changing them. (1st-year 
PhD student, law)
How many drafts could be considered too many for the same piece of writing? 
While recognizing that certain sections will be more difficult and that we will 
146  The PhD Writing Handbook
have to redraft more, is there a limit to this? Is there a point where we need 
to call a halt, and how do we recognize when we have reached that point? 
Such questions require careful consideration, as evidence suggests a strong 
link between the processes of both drafting and redrafting and becoming 
blocked as a writer (see Chapter  11). Your initial plans for a chapter and 
your writing targets can seem very distant when you find yourself drafting 
the same piece of text four or five times without a sense of real progress. If a 
supervisor were to say, ‘this is your fourth draft, but I want you to do a fifth 
one’, I think it would be reasonable to ask to start writing something else and 
to return to the text in question later. In fact, most PhD supervisors would be 
unlikely to insist on a fifth draft, except in exceptional circumstances. 
Although this may seem at first sight to be a contradiction, redrafting text 
as you write is an important part of the first draft process. This process tends 
to be cyclical rather than linear: only in rare cases will just one attempt be 
enough. Two or three redrafts can be considered normal. Anything beyond 
this requires careful consideration and justification. 
Effective first draft writing involves the gradual construction of an entire 
text rather than joining together a series of well-constructed and polished texts. 
An alternative approach might involve producing a first draft of each chapter 
in turn, redrafting in response to reader feedback, progressing to the next 
chapter and repeating the process. Although it is possible to write in this 
way, failing to consider the text as a whole can result in a lack of coherence 
between chapters, with different parts of the thesis becoming disconnected 
from others. The most productive way of preventing this from happening is 
to put in place a system for careful monitoring of the text as it grows in size. 
  Monitoring progress
Keeping a writing journal or diary
Gradually building a text without losing coherence can be a complicated 
process and may require additional support. Some writers believe that 
producing a reflective writing journal can help to provide this. How might it 
work in practice? 
I write about the problems that I am facing. If I get lost, for example, I have 
found it useful because sometimes I become more aware about what I am 
doing, where my research topic is going, how my point of view differs from 
that of my supervisor. So it is a kind of therapy. 
This writer and others say to themselves: ‘This was my thinking on this 
particular day’, followed by a discussion of the progress that has been made 
Completing a First Draft  147
and questions that need to be addressed. Recording such impressions can 
help many research writers. When I started my own PhD thesis more than 
20 years ago, I found the early chapters difficult to write. Subsequently, 
I travelled abroad to collect data as part of a qualitative study and was 
advised to keep a data collection journal. This worked as an effective 
means of pulling together all of the different types of data collected from 
interviews, observations of teaching and focus groups. When I returned 
from fieldwork data collection, I decided to continue the habit of keeping a 
reflective journal to record my progress while writing in an attempt to keep 
myself on track. Whenever I felt blocked, confused or perplexed during first 
draft writing, I would read this journal carefully so that I could try to estab-
lish how I had managed to reach the blocking point. Occasionally, I would 
be able to work out an exact route, retrace my steps and begin to plot an 
alternative. For this process to work effectively, I needed to exercise a 
degree of self-discipline when recording events or pieces of analysis within 
the journal. 
Some people have this kind of self-discipline naturally. A few years ago 
after the death of my mother, my sister and I discovered boxes of diaries 
going back to the early 1950s, when I was a young child. Having read through 
them, I found the reconnection to be almost instant – everything was there. 
The diaries brought back vividly the daily routine and problems of life in the 
immediate post-war period. My mother’s concerns and reflections were of 
their time. For example, buying a washing machine or a television was an 
important event and involved the visits of admiring neighbours and friends. 
Certain entries were puzzling: for instance, I found it difficult to understand 
the constant washing of floors and walls, cleaning of curtains and carpets. 
The carefully recorded visits of the chimneysweep then reminded me of why 
these activities were so frequent and so necessary. 
Reading documents such as these, it is possible to reconnect to a previ-
ous period of time and a previous way of thinking. Having the discipline to 
put thoughts down on paper in this way can result in a powerful and useful 
document later on when memory has begun to distort the past. My mother 
kept diaries with no intended readership apart from herself, although many 
members of our family have subsequently benefited from reading them. 
In my case, I decided to keep a journal – different from my concept of a diary 
in that there would be at least one other intended reader. From time to time, 
my supervisor asked to see this document, as it provided her with a useful 
means of picking up the thread of my progress. On one occasion she went so 
far as to make the tongue-in-cheek suggestion that the journal might even-
tually be of more interest than the PhD thesis itself. Unfortunately, very few 
extracts survive. One is reproduced below: 
148  The PhD Writing Handbook
My journal entries tended to focus on problem areas. They included my 
concerns about certain chapters which did not seem to make any sense, my 
uncertainties concerning whether I should break up larger chapters or not, 
my frustration when reaching apparent dead ends. These musings are very 
revealing when I look back on the experience of writing a PhD thesis. Seen 
from a distance of more than 20 years, the process might appear to be seam-
less. It is easy to forget the pain and effort required to complete certain chap-
ters. When I re-read these journal notes, the reality of the situation returns 
and I remember my struggles with chapters 4 and 5 in particular. 
A reflective writing journal is worth careful consideration because it can 
be an important document in its own right. It records why you make certain 
choices at certain points in time. In producing a long text many such choices 
will have to be made. Do you need a more substantial chapter  1? Should 
you continue with chapter 3 and put aside for the moment considerations of 
chapter 5? If you can write down all your thinking in this way, you may be 
able to justify your decisions more easily and more effectively, especially the 
major decisions related to reallocating content within the first draft. 
As Wolcott (1990) states, writing is very much about clarifying thinking 
and is not just the end product of thinking. If you can develop a parallel 
narrative at a metacognitive level, thinking about your thinking and thinking 
about your writing, this can be of significant help. One other consequence 
of monitoring progress in this way may be that it may help you to achieve 
a certain amount of distance from your work and to establish more clearly 
your own position. 
Finally, a research journal can encourage useful critical self-evaluation 
(see Chapter 7). This needs to be considered carefully because there is always 
a danger that you can go too far and that latent ­perfectionist ­tendencies 
Box 10.2. Extract from a reflective writing 
­journal
I know chapter 4 is far too long. I will perhaps be able to shorten it when 
chapter  5 is written and the less relevant parts of chapter  4 can then 
shrink almost to nothing. A lot of quotes could perhaps be transferred 
into Chapter 5 as I work through the main issues which come out from 
the data. The main question is: is it readable? Or is it just like a list of 
events? If I shorten it too much, will I have to have long appendices with 
transcripts of everything? It’s very difficult for me to decide all of this 
because I can’t really stand back from it. 
Completing a First Draft  149
could turn the monitoring process into a purely negative ­exercise. One of the 
most common reasons for non-completion of this long piece of writing is the 
desire to achieve a perfect first draft. Naturally, this can never be achieved. 
Critical self-evaluation needs therefore to be justified and rationalized. 
If you fail to provide a balanced picture of where you are at a particular 
moment, the consequences can be serious. Every writer at some point 
has thought aloud, ‘I know that my work lacks real worth, and I also 
know that someone somewhere is writing something much better. My 
project did seem interesting but no longer does, and maybe no one will 
read the results of my work’. Chapter 11 will address such issues and their 
­consequences. 
Blogging
Another alternative to a research journal might be a PhD writing blog, 
typified by an example produced by a researcher at the London School of 
Economics (see Appendix 1). Blogs that you produce and those written by 
other researchers can be very inspiring. There are many potential advan-
tages according to these PhD thesis writers: 
Blogging can be a release from all the structural pressures corroding the 
creative impulse of academic writing … . Waiting for the organic moment of 
inspiration when deadlines loom can be unreliable. 
Blogging becomes a vehicle for intellectual exploration and a reflection on 
writing.
As well as your own blog, other specialist blogs where you can get into 
the conversation can be useful. You can take your concerns into this type 
of forum using the comments sections, sharing them with others. An active 
Facebook page can almost serve as a kind of problem corner. There are lots 
of people out there who have exactly the same problem as you, and you will 
also find expertise.
There are obvious differences between a reflective journal and a blog. People 
will read and will respond to a blog; after all, it is a public document. Its ability 
to be interactive also has considerable advantages if you would like feedback 
on your writing, assuming that you receive encouraging as well as more criti-
cal comments. A colleague who recently set up her own blog on an unrelated 
theme reports that the enthusiastic response has encouraged her to such an 
extent that for the first time, writing has become an enjoyable and reward-
ing experience. A reflective journal or diary is a more personal document in 
which you talk to yourself and possibly one or two others. With a blog, talking 
to yourself takes place in a public arena. It is a way of rationalizing what you 
are doing with the addition of feedback, even from people who you do not 
150  The PhD Writing Handbook
know. According to one researcher, ‘You have enormous freedom because 
you can choose your topic yourself and write the way you want to write’. 
The problem about creating your own blog is that it takes time and effort 
which could be directed elsewhere. However, with your own blog, there is no 
particular requirement to post regularly – but just when you feel like it and 
have time. Some people go on ‘blog holidays’ and return after a few months 
refreshed. 
Finally, it is worth noting that writing on social media sites can also be a 
source of encouragement according to this PhD student writer: 
On my Facebook page I write about where I am having difficulties. As some 
people who respond are not specialists, you end up having to explain things. 
And this helps you fine-tune or pick through whatever it is that is going on. 
It’s not a diary or a blog, but it is a way of making your ideas public without 
thinking that it has to be academic writing.
  Writing and editing
In the final section of this chapter, we consider the differences between first 
draft writing and chapter editing. A typical first draft writing cycle might look 
like this:
• 
planning the overall structure of chapters
• 
writing sections of an initial first draft
• 
printing out
• 
reflecting on the printout and obtaining feedback from other sources
• 
reallocating text where necessary, filling gaps and making cuts
• 
producing a ‘final’ version of the first draft 
The advice of the novelist John Steinbeck can be of assistance when we are 
attempting to separate the processes of first draft writing and editing: 
Write freely and as rapidly as possible and throw the whole thing on 
paper. Never correct or rewrite till the whole thing is down. (Steinbeck & 
Wallsten 1989)
In other words, a first draft can contain flaws, and there is no requirement 
to edit text carefully before moving from one section or chapter to another. 
To what extent is Steinbeck’s straightforward advice relevant in an 
academic writing context? You might begin by identifying the underlying 
Completing a First Draft  151
narrative within your research. The story of how you planned your data 
collection, how you collected it and what you discovered could be one 
strand. The  story of how you considered different theoretical frameworks 
to help make sense of your research and how you chose one of them might 
be another. Arguably, there is some element of narrative in each impor-
tant aspect of a research project. Committing the events of this narrative 
to paper and clearly and simply conducting the accompanying analysis are 
your tasks.
If you follow Steinbeck’s advice, there is no need at this stage to worry 
unduly about details of academic style, minor points of uncertainty (just 
put a question mark) or even minor factual errors: these can be checked 
at a later stage, as long as they are highlighted. For example, if a date is 
uncertain, write yourself a note that says, ‘I need to check this’. If you spend 
a great deal of time checking references in detail, you could easily become 
distracted from the main task of getting your ideas down on paper. 
Distinguishing between the details that you do have to worry about and 
those that you do not is an important first draft writing task. Unfortunately, 
not everyone will agree with this distinction. My experience with my own 
PhD supervisor is that she had very strict views about punctuation. If I 
submitted a chapter to her and asked for feedback, this would invariably 
focus on my misuse of commas. My task was to convince her that the final 
version of the text would be polished and error free, suitably punctuated 
throughout. Once she had that confidence, she tended to focus more on the 
content of what I had written. 
If a PhD supervisor has never seen a final version of a text written by you, 
such concerns are understandable. You will need to provide reassurance, 
perhaps by showing another text that has been finalized and (preferably) 
published. An important conversation with a supervisor involves ensuring 
that both of you are clear about expectations not just of the first draft but 
also of the final draft that you will submit. 
Another useful approach is to respond to reader feedback as follows: 
‘Thank you for telling me this. I will not implement all of these changes 
immediately but will consider them at the editing stage.’ This reassurance 
will usually be enough to show that you are aware of problem areas and 
have noted them carefully. In fact, the problem is not usually the nature of 
errors, but the way in which writers and readers respond to them. If you can 
produce a polished first draft in terms of language accuracy and style, this is 
commendable. However, when problems appear, you will need to convince 
yourself and your readers that the fundamental aim of the first draft is to get 
the content right. 
152  The PhD Writing Handbook
To summarize, ‘writing freely’ within a first draft process can mean:
• 
telling a story clearly and simply
• 
not worrying about minor factual errors at this stage
• 
not immediately revising grammar, spelling and punctuation
• 
not worrying excessively about paragraph length
• 
not over-worrying about conciseness or stylistic considerations, though 
an awareness of academic style does need to be built into the text
 ‘Writing freely’ within a first draft needs, however, to take account of:
• 
inclusion of key arguments and counterarguments with supporting 
evidence
• 
exploration of key concepts
• 
coherence of argumentation 
Failing to address coherence issues at this early stage will have conse-
quences. If ideas are expressed in a less than coherent way, there is even a 
danger that when you re-read them you will fail to understand them. As an 
aid to coherence, you will need to build in carefully crafted topic sentences 
and other forms of signalling. Although you can add detail later, you also 
need to include all of the key arguments and counterarguments and to 
explore and define key terminology, making sure that it is used consist-
ently. Terminology is not a matter of detail: you need to make sure in your 
choice of words that you are conveying the message that you want to get 
across. 
A dissenting view comes from a 1st-year PhD researcher in response to 
these recommendations concerning which areas to prioritize: 
If accuracy of language is not tackled early on in the process, there will be 
a real problem when it comes to writing up. Some students take up to three 
years to get their language level up to the point where they can write an 
acceptable final draft. 
The response might be that there is a clear difference between flagging 
up problems and having to make corrections immediately. Where a writer 
commits language errors that impede coherence and comprehensibility, then 
that is a serious matter. If a writer is making punctuation errors which do 
not affect understanding of the text, that person has a choice – to address 
the punctuation problems immediately, with the risk of being distracted from 
the main task, or to come to an agreement with the readers to deal with this 
Completing a First Draft  153
later. It may even be the case that a proofreader or a copyeditor can do part 
of this work when the final version is produced. 
Note also that the first draft writing process does not absolve you from 
doing any of the following: 
1.	 Writing aimlessly without a plan or an awareness of where the text is 
heading
Your overall plan articulated through documents such as the table of 
contents, abstract, monthly schedule or reflective journal needs to be 
readily accessible at all times. Many writers also find individual chapter 
plans pinned prominently near the computer screen to be helpful. At 
regular intervals during writing, the question that you will need to ask 
yourself is, ‘Am I still on track’? 
2.	 Omitting introductory or concluding sections to chapters
These are an essential element of first draft writing. For further discus-
sion of the issues involved in creating high-quality introductions and 
conclusions, see Chapter 6. 
3.	 Confusing your own ideas with those of other authors
In a text as lengthy as a PhD thesis, this can be a major cause of loss of 
coherence. References need to be integrated into a first draft in such a 
way as to create no ambiguity concerning ownership of the ideas that 
are being presented. Precise referencing markers such as ‘according to 
Benson (1993)’ or ‘Benson (1993) claims that’ are nearly always prefer-
able to adding a name and date at the end of a paragraph or combination 
of sentences within a paragraph. In a worst case scenario, you may find 
when you re-read the text that you are no longer certain how some of the 
ideas originated. 
4.	 Preventing yourself from re-reading what you have written as the text grows
Re-reading is an important element in the first draft process, as is redraft-
ing to correct imbalances within the text. A first draft of any chapter 
within a PhD thesis can never be regarded as a linear process, nor should 
it ever be confused with a rough draft written in a continuous burst 
of activity. First draft writing is a complex, non-intuitive process that 
involves a gradual accumulation of pieces of written text that may need to 
be revised to fit together as a coherent whole. The final, polished version 
of the text will come later, when feedback has been taken into account 
and careful editing has taken place. In the meantime, the completion of 
an entire first draft means that you have taken your most significant step 
towards achieving success. It is an occasion to be celebrated almost as 
much as the submission of the printed final version itself. 
154  The PhD Writing Handbook
1.	 Build carefully crafted topic sentences into your first draft writing to help 
manage the expectations of your readers.
2.	Consider keeping a writing journal to help you keep track of your 
progress.
3.	Consider starting a writing blog to help you communicate with other 
writers who have progressed to a similar stage. A blog may also enable 
you to learn from the experience of others who are several stages 
ahead.
4.	Make sure that you appreciate the clear differences between ­producing 
first draft texts and editing texts. Focus on extensive, detailed editing 
once a first draft has been produced rather than during first draft 
­production.
Action Points
155
11 Motivating Yourself 
to Write
This chapter
• 
considers the nature of writer’s block, its causes and consequences
• 
presents a range of strategies that can either enable you to pre-empt 
blockages or that will help you deal with them effectively
• 
offers advice on coping with situations that involve the rejection of 
written work 
  Writing is more than just a technical exercise
A PhD student once told me about the occasion when she felt so blocked in 
her writing that she decided to give up her entire research project: 
I wrote to my supervisor: ‘I’m giving up and going back to my own country. 
I apologize.’ He replied: ‘Sorry? You can’t say these kinds of things by email in 
this way. We need to talk about this in person.’ 
When they met the next day, the advice given by the supervisor was to begin 
a fixed routine: get up at the same time, go to the gym, write for a few hours, 
have lunch, continue to write and then stop. Every day the routine should be 
the same. He also arranged a new office where all of this writing could take 
place. The student began to make some progress with her writing. The situ-
ation was eventually saved. 
The experience of many writers suggests that a regular routine of this kind 
can be helpful and in this particular case, it worked well thanks to the quick 
thinking and sensitivity of the supervisor. The writer was feeling isolated, 
demotivated and homesick. Some words of understanding and simple practi-
cal advice were required from someone who realized that writing a long text 
is as much a psychological as a technical exercise. 
156  The PhD Writing Handbook
However, there are occasions where such simple solutions are not 
enough. It is possible to reach a stage where you begin to think, ‘What I 
am writing has little value or no value. I am wasting my time and other 
people’s time.’ This is the point when you really begin to entertain thoughts 
of giving up. It seems that self-motivation is not just linked to self-discipline 
and to the degree of success achieved in the management of the whole PhD 
project, but also linked to underlying beliefs concerning the quality of the 
work and perceptions of your own abilities. Goleman (1996) goes further, 
arguing that self-motivation can be broken down into qualities such as resil-
ience and optimism. These, arguably, are also key components of a more 
general ‘emotional intelligence’ (see Chapter  5), which many believe is an 
important indicator of success. 
This chapter will consider the importance of self-motivation, ­self-discipline, 
self-belief and other psychological aspects of writing. Rather than consider 
all of these in turn, however, the approach taken will be to look at what 
happens when things go wrong and to seek to identify solutions which will 
enable you to keep writing whatever the circumstances. 
  The nature of writer’s block
When the ability to manage the writing process, or self-belief, or optimism 
and resilience fail, the result can be the appearance of what is often known 
as the ‘first draft wall’, a form of writer’s block. Some writers, such as Nelson 
(1993), argue that writer’s block can contain a strong positive element: 
Writers tend to think of themselves in a number of ways, all bad. They are, 
so they think, lazy undisciplined shirkers, failures, cowardly frauds, good-for-
nothings. The list of negatives stretches into cold infinity … . Being temporarily 
unable to write, however, or for that matter to perform any creative endeav-
our, is not a bad thing in itself. Properly interpreted a block is the best thing 
that can happen to a writer. Resistance is a vital regulator of the creative 
process because it obliges us to suspend our plans and reconsider the nature 
of our relation to the creative forces. 
In other words, writer’s block appears to be part of the natural process of 
writing, a means of saying to a writer, ‘stop before you go any further, and 
think about what you are doing’. Applying the brakes from time to time is 
thus seen to be a necessary procedure. However, this view does not offer a 
great deal of comfort to those who believe that they have hit a solid wall that 
they cannot pass through, climb over or circumvent. Nelson herself admits 
that there is a misconception of writer’s block as a neutral state. 
Motivating Yourself to Write  157
The truth is that this is no passive condition. It is an aggressive reaction, a 
loud shout from the unconscious calling the attention to the fact that some-
thing is out of adjustment. The block itself is not the problem. It is a signal to 
adjust the way we approach our work … . Writers who find themselves unable 
to produce have made a choice not to write but they do not experience it as 
choice. (1993: 2) 
Clearly, it can be useful to recognize the different manifestations of writer’s 
block, consider its causes and explore possible solutions. Writer’s block 
means different things to different people and is often portrayed by writers 
in works of literature. In Albert Camus’ novel ‘La Peste’, written in 1947, a 
town in Algeria is cut off by the bubonic plague, and the people inside gradu-
ally realize that that they will all die. They begin to prepare for death in a 
dignified way. Among them, Joseph Grand is a civil servant who has always 
aspired to be a great novelist. He announces to his colleague, ‘What I really 
want, doctor, is this. On the day the manuscript reaches the publisher I want 
him to stand up—after he’s read it through, of course—and say to his staff: 
“Gentlemen, hats off!” … So you see, … it’s got to be flawless.’ 
Grand takes extraordinary pains to bring his work to perfection, with 
evenings and whole weekends ‘spent on just one word’. He dies having 
written just one sentence, beyond which he can never progress. His perfec-
tionist tendencies create a total block: he cannot proceed, because he wants 
to get things absolutely right, and he craves recognition not just for good-
quality work but for an exceptional achievement. However, he succeeds in 
maintaining his self-motivation and self-discipline since writing provides 
some degree of meaning for the final days of his life. 
A more famous example of writer’s block is considered in a 2004 article 
by Joan Acocella where she describes the experiences of the poet Coleridge 
who wrote in 1832, ‘Yesterday was my birthday. So completely has a whole 
year passed with scarcely the fruits of a month. O Sorrow and Shame … I 
have done nothing!’ 
To increase his levels of creativity, Coleridge took opium and experienced 
what he described as ‘visions’ while in a state of semi-consciousness. When 
he woke up completely, he would attempt to record his visions. On one 
occasion, the poet had been reading an account of the emperor Kublai Khan 
building a magnificent palace. This led to a vision which prompted several 
hundred lines of poetry. Unfortunately, when he was writing down the words 
of his poem, a man appeared and knocked on his door, distracting him. 
The vision was lost, the writer became blocked and ‘the man from Porlock’ 
became a famous minor character in literary history. The poem ‘Kubla Khan’ 
was never finished to Coleridge’s satisfaction. 
158  The PhD Writing Handbook
In her article, Acocella also considers other views of writer’s block, 
including the belief that it is a condition that can be treated with Prozac or 
Ritalin and is related to manic depression. In this interpretation, it is consid-
ered to be a kind of psychological disorder. At the other extreme lies the idea 
that ‘some writers become blocked simply because the concept exists, and 
invoking it is easier than writing’. 
So what might writer’s block mean for PhD thesis writers? There are three 
specific questions that will need to be addressed:
1.	 In which situations does writer’s block occur?
2.	 What are its causes?
3.	 What kind of strategies or solutions can we use to overcome it? 
  In which situations does writer’s block occur?
Below are the thoughts of first- and second-year PhD students at two UK 
universities, compiled from group discussions which took place over a four-
year period. 
Box 11.1. Writer’s block occurs when … 
a.	 I don’t know how or where to begin. 
b.	 I thought I knew what I wanted to write but suddenly I realize that I’m 
not so sure.
c.	 I lose the plot and can’t remember what I want to say next.
d.	 I lose any sense of direction and don’t know where my writing is 
leading me.
e.	 I feel that what I am writing is trivial and of no real interest to the 
reader.
f.	
I get distracted by other ideas which are on my mind.
g.	 I have so many ideas at once that I cannot get any of them down on 
paper.
h.	 I keep writing the same section/paragraph and cannot seem to go 
beyond it.
i.	
I lose interest in what I am writing.
j.	
What I am writing has stopped making sense to me.
k.	 Ideas start jumping around all over the place.
Motivating Yourself to Write  159
Evidently, some of these situations can be considered more serious than 
others. The students elaborated on some of the reasons given, as follows: 
It is frustrating not to be able to get all those ideas down. Some people can 
manage this orally, but not in writing. The problem is lack of focus perhaps. 
(statement g) 
This is the normal experience, I think. What causes that? It’s possible that 
you shouldn’t have started it or maybe you are being too perfectionist rather 
than moving on. There could be a lot of causes, but this to me is a fairly 
normal situation, something that we all experience. (h) 
Certain chapters block me, particularly results chapters. I can lose interest 
in certain chapters. (i) 
A chapter that I thought was really awful had to be left till the end. I came 
back to it and still wasn’t very pleased with it. (e) 
Losing sense of the structure became a big issue for me at the very 
­beginning. (a) 
In such discussions, writers will make a clear distinction between becoming 
blocked at the very start of writing and the occurrence of a blockage which 
appears while writing. The former can present a significant obstacle for a 
minority of writers, who either lack the impetus to get started or feel over-
whelmed by the enormity of the task ahead. Once a clear starting point has 
been established, the problem can disappear. 
More commonly, you will find that you have little difficulty in getting 
started and that your initial motivation levels are high. First draft writing will, 
however, present situations in which you feel that you cannot proceed. If it 
is a case of having too many ideas (statements g and k) or losing the plot (c), 
this can be considered a normal occurrence and part of the writing process 
for which a number of solutions can be readily applied. Unfortunately, some 
of the situations mentioned above do not fall into this category and are 
considered below. 
I feel that what I am writing is trivial and of no real interest 
to the reader
You may have such feelings about certain parts of your text – for example, 
a section of the literature review or the description of your data collection 
methods. In such a situation, you can say to yourself, ‘This all seems rather 
obvious. However, I know that in the next section what I have to say is of 
interest and I have full confidence in it’. A lack of confidence in the entire 
text is a more serious matter. 
160  The PhD Writing Handbook
When inexperienced researchers present their work to others, a common 
reaction is surprise that colleagues in the field are genuinely interested 
in what they have to say. Positive feedback can generate confidence and 
prevent writers from being drawn into the lack of self-belief which is a major 
cause of blockage. It therefore makes good sense to seek out opportuni-
ties for gaining feedback on your work through conference presentations, 
departmental seminars and discussion groups. 
I lose interest in what I am writing
At a certain point, you may find yourself thinking, ‘I feel I was once inter-
ested in this project, but I no longer am’. Deciding on a research topic in 
haste or gradually realizing that there is a lack of interest by others in your 
field may have caused this to happen. The result can be a complete change 
of direction or even the abandonment of the research topic. Sometimes, 
however, a project can be saved if you are able to identify some element that 
still interests you, as in the example below: 
Box 11.2. One writer’s experience 
From the beginning of my research I found great difficulty in developing 
my own research questions … but in the eighth month of my PhD my 
second supervisor started to help me. I went back to my reading and 
found a connection between what I really wanted to do and the sugges-
tions that the second supervisor gave me. I realized that I was in charge 
of my PhD thesis and that I had to develop the research questions. I had 
thought it would be easier to answer someone else’s questions, but I 
realized that I needed to be more independent. One of my problems had 
been that I had misunderstood ‘independence’ and thought that it meant 
doing everything on my own, whereas I needed a guide. And I confused 
‘guidance’ with being told what to do …
I have now changed my topic and my first supervisor. I found that 
when we met, he was always talking about his preferred topic and I 
wanted to talk about mine. But the topic has to be my responsibility. What 
helped me to go on was having the real research questions in my heart. 
Researchers in certain science subject areas who apply to join an existing 
project may also experience doubts about ownership of their own research. 
They may wonder to themselves, ‘Do I have anything significant to add to 
this project? Is it really my area of interest or that of my supervisor? Am I 
saying what my supervisor wants me to say rather than what I want to say?’ 
Motivating Yourself to Write  161
If you feel that you do not really have ownership rights of your PhD 
research project, or if you believe that you are merely repeating the work of 
someone else, then you can become blocked. You begin to feel that what 
you are doing is not worth continuing because other people have said it or 
others could say it better. Once you begin to experience these feelings, the 
next step may be to lose interest in your work. It is a situation that cannot 
be ignored. 
What I am writing has stopped making sense to me
If ideas stop making sense in one or two paragraphs, there may be a problem 
of coherence that needs to be addressed. If, however, you feel that the 
whole text no longer makes sense, this is more serious. In the discussion of 
research topic feasibility (in Chapter  2), the particular problem of studying 
phenomena that are evolving was mentioned. In such cases, it can happen 
that you suddenly realize that the focus of your research has changed and 
that your previously stated aims are no longer valid or applicable. This, in 
turn, can lead to feeling that the whole project is worthless or senseless. 
Here is another writer’s experience: 
When I submitted my draft to the supervisory board, they told me that it 
wasn’t a draft – it was just a collection of notes. I had spent a lot of time on 
this. I really didn’t know what to do until a supervisor encouraged me and 
gave some useful advice. 
In conclusion, there are multiple situations in which writer’s block can affect 
you, but some are clearly more serious than others, especially those in which 
you question the meaning or the ownership of what you are doing. Nelson’s 
argument that being blocked can be a positive experience is valid only up to 
a point: some blockages not only stop you in your tracks but can prove to 
be terminal. A review of reasons for quitting a PhD published by the Thesis 
Whisperer website in 2014 (see Appendix 1) reveals that these tend to include 
the following:
• 
problems with motivation, including boredom, disenchantment and 
­laziness
• 
injury or illness
• 
family commitments, including marriage breakdowns
• 
loneliness
• 
lack of university jobs/attraction of a job offer
• 
problems in choice of topic
• 
cross-disciplinary research issues
162  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
failed lab work
• 
problems with ‘writing up’
• 
supervision issues (including neglect, incompetence and personality 
clashes) 
Problems related to self-motivation and those related to writing-up feature 
prominently on this list and similar lists compiled elsewhere. 
  What are the causes of writer’s block?
The same groups of first- and second-year PhD students also discussed 
possible causes of writer’s block and produced the list below: 
Box 11.3. When I experience writer’s block, the 
main causes are usually …
a.	 outside distractions
b.	 lack of time
c.	 tiredness
d.	 general anxiety
e.	 perfectionism
f.	
trying to live up to very high standards established by others
g.	 lack of confidence in the end product
h.	 thinking which is muddled or blinkered
i.	
a feeling that I am heading up a blind alley or running out of options
j.	
procrastination: putting off big decision-making
k.	 an inability to impose a clear structure on my writing
l.	
a premonition that I am heading for ultimate failure – so why bother?
m.	 not reading enough that is relevant to what I have to write
n.	 a lack of ideas or lack of knowledge
o.	 negative feedback from readers
p.	 language difficulties 
Some suggestions (a, b) relate to the fact that we need to balance writing 
with the rest of our life. Further discussion of these specific points revealed 
a whole range of anxieties, even concerning seemingly trivial activities, such 
as finding time for cleaning an oven. ‘Outside distractions’ can also include 
major life events which cause you to stop writing. It seems that stopping 
very abruptly for such reasons without thinking about the stopping point 
Motivating Yourself to Write  163
can cause a greater blockage later on. When you eventually return to your 
writing, it is often harder to reconnect. 
Perfectionism and general anxiety, which appear to be closely linked, 
are mentioned by many writers as catalysts for writer’s block. An additional 
problem is that perfectionist tendencies and their negative consequences 
can go unrecognized in the early stages of writing. It appears entirely normal 
to want to do everything exceptionally well and to insist even in the begin-
ning on the highest standards. Ultimately, this may prove to be an advantage 
when editing a final draft of a long text. For first draft writing we need to 
control our perfectionist tendencies or risk becoming blocked by the same 
section of text, or paragraph, or even sentence. 
As was the case with typical situations, some of the perceived causes of 
writer’s block require closer consideration, including the following: 
Trying to live up to very high standards established by others
For me, it is linked to the general PhD framework. Is the work that I am 
producing of a high enough standard? (1st-year PhD student) 
This possible reason for writer’s block seems to be closely associated with 
a ‘lack of confidence in the end product’. Both are a serious cause for 
concern. It is worth asking yourself who the ‘others’ that you are attempt-
ing to emulate might be. Other PhD researchers? Other authors? Editors of 
­journals? Academics in the field? 
For many writers, the idea of following in the footsteps of other authors 
and maintaining their standards is a daunting task. This can also lead to 
another possible reason for a block, the feeling that you need to read much 
more in order to be able to write at the same standard. 
I sometimes get this feeling that what I am writing is very thin in content, 
because I haven’t read enough. Then I may get blocked like this.
This type of feeling with respect to a particular chapter (or section of a 
chapter) is common to all writers. If the standards that you are aiming for are 
apparent in sections of your text, it is entirely logical to feel dissatisfied when 
other sections do not measure up. Such situations are manageable: it is often 
sufficient to make a careful note of the nature of the problem and then move 
on. A more general feeling that you are failing to meet the standards set by 
others is, however, more serious. 
Language difficulties
Many PhD researchers who study in the UK are disadvantaged to some 
degree by the fact that English is not their native language. My own 
164  The PhD Writing Handbook
­experience of attempting to learn nine foreign languages at various stages of 
my life makes me sympathetic to this situation. I believe that I can express 
ideas in my own language with a fair degree of fluency and coherence, 
which in turn gives me the confidence to believe that I can usually convey 
a message to a listener or reader without being misunderstood. On those 
occasions when I have been obliged to deliver a lecture or write a coherent 
academic text in a foreign language, I have found this to be a frustrating and 
demanding experience. 
If this is your situation, you will realize that there are no instant solu-
tions but that the sympathetic support of supervisors is crucial to your 
success. According to Paltridge and Starfield (2007: 43–4) a common cause 
of writer’s block may be the fear of somehow being ‘an impostor’. This can 
affect second-language writers more acutely than those writing in their first 
language if perceptions of intellectual ability and language proficiency are 
closely associated. 
The same authors believe that perfectionism can be an added burden for 
the second-language writer. If every grammatical structure and all spelling 
need to be 100 per cent accurate, this will distract considerably from the 
more central task of producing a coherent first draft. Once the final draft 
has been reached, help is available through proofreading and copyedit-
ing services, which enable writers to submit their texts fully confident that 
language errors have been eliminated. For first draft writing, however, the 
struggle to express complex ideas when linguistic resources may be lacking 
can easily lead to a block. 
The good thing in my department is that we don’t have to write till the third 
year. (1st-year PhD student)
Some supervisors and university departments respond to language prob-
lems by encouraging the postponement of writing until as late a stage as 
possible, arguing that by the third year, the standard of written English of 
the PhD researcher concerned will have improved. As has been made clear 
throughout this handbook, I do not support this approach. Instead of putting 
off writing in the early stages of research, it is advisable to begin developing 
effective writing skills as soon as possible. By the time that you reach the 
third year of PhD study, you will be more skilled and will feel more ­confident. 
This appears to be true not only for second-language writers but also for 
first-language writers, particularly those who have spent a considerable 
period of time away from the academic world.
In conclusion, it can be argued that there are no dominant causes of 
writer’s block. A single writer may experience different types of blockages 
Motivating Yourself to Write  165
on different occasions and with different causes. However, it is evident that 
some of the causes will need more careful attention than others as the type 
of block that they produce may have serious consequences for the entire 
research project. 
Interestingly, one participant in the discussions suggested that a major 
cause of being blocked might be fear of writer’s block itself: in other words, 
the fear of becoming blocked might act as a self-fulfilling prophecy. It is very 
likely that regarding writer’s block almost as a psychological or a medical 
condition in this way would be conducive to creating more anxiety rather 
than less. 
  What kind of strategies or solutions can we use 
for writer’s block?
Nelson (1993) believes that experiencing writer’s block involves making a 
choice that you are not aware of. According to this view, the block does not 
appear of its own accord but is often there for a significant reason. The same 
author argues that ‘trying to muscle our way past resistance doesn’t work’. 
This is good advice. If the block is there for a reason, forcing a way through 
it is unlikely to succeed. Instead, blocked writers will find that there are a 
range of practical solutions available to them. The nature of the blockage 
will determine which is most likely to succeed. 
One well-meant piece of advice often given to blocked writers is to 
switch to a different activity or to take a break from writing. Sometimes, this 
straightforward advice may work, but on other occasions it may actually 
make the situation worse. If you cannot write on Monday for some reason, 
going away for a few days’ holiday or changing activities can leave you 
feeling refreshed. However, there is no reason to believe that this will result 
in an effortless reconnection with your text on Friday or Saturday. The block-
age will most probably still be there and may even appear to be worse. 
In fact, one major cause of writer’s block to be added to those detailed in 
the previous section can be an inability to reconnect with previous thinking. 
You look at (for example) a draft of Chapter  2 that was produced several 
weeks ago and cannot discover a thread of argumentation that links this 
text to other texts. It is almost a case of wondering, ‘Did I really write this?’ 
or ‘What was I thinking at the time?’ As noted in Chapter 3, a similar break-
down can occur when attempting to reconnect to reading texts when the 
content has been half-forgotten. So, the advice to go away and get some 
fresh air can be helpful up to a point, especially in cases where this is only 
for a few minutes. However, if you go away for a week and come back, you 
166  The PhD Writing Handbook
may find that you are even more blocked than you were before. Worst of all, 
you may not be able to remember the circumstances in which the blockage 
took place. 
To prevent such situations from occurring, it is useful to consider how 
you record your ideas as they occur. Analytic notes (see Chapter 3) are the 
starting point: these can be developed into the kind of memos described by 
Hammersley and Atkinson (1983). Alternatively, they can be integrated into 
an ongoing reflective journal of the kind mentioned in Chapter 10, with these 
added advantages: 
• 
It can become an important document in its own right, recording why 
you made certain decisions at certain stages.
• 
By mediating between the writer and the text, it can help to create intel-
lectual distance as part of a more reasoned and objective analysis. 
A reflective journal can also contribute to the monitoring of progress and 
encourage critical self-appraisal, as was discussed in Chapter  10. If it 
works well, it can document the intellectual journey that will result in the 
final version of the written text. At the same time, it can provide a source 
of encouragement and self-motivation, especially if it is shared with other 
writers. 
It seems that talking to yourself and writing notes to yourself are useful 
strategies both to prevent and to manage writer’s block and its conse-
quences. Sometimes a problem that seems severe one week will have dimin-
ished the next. Perhaps in a different part of your work, you will discover 
ideas that can help address problems that are apparently insoluble. There are 
also occasions when problem areas can appear to get worse. In either case, 
you need to try to rationalize and to record events as you see them. 
Rationalizing events means conducting a dialogue with yourself – one 
that will help you achieve a distance between yourself and the text that you 
are attempting to produce. The most important step is to write to yourself 
at the point of blockage before you walk away. You may say to yourself, 
‘At this moment, I am stuck. I think the reason is X … I am therefore leaving 
this chapter but will come back later.’ This kind of record will provide you 
with a significant amount of help when you return to the text and wish to 
reconnect. If, at the point of return, you cannot remember the circumstances 
in which you stopped writing, the blockage is more likely to continue and 
perhaps increase. 
Other writers offer a range of practical suggestions that will help combat 
first draft blockages. Zerubavel (1999) recommends a change in the type of 
writing that you are engaged in. If you reach an apparent dead end, switch 
Motivating Yourself to Write  167
to a less demanding type of writing, such as transcribing data, and come 
back later. Dunleavy (2003: 138) recommends regular use of the printer for 
sections of text that appear to resist completion on the grounds that spread-
ing out pages of written text rather than staring at a screen can sometimes 
provide you with the broader perspective that you may need. Murray (2002), 
emulating Steinbeck, recommends free writing for five minutes or longer. 
The aim is to increase both fluency and confidence in writing. When a block-
age does occur or a dead end is reached, writing can still continue. 
The idea that writing can be a release from writing is an interesting 
suggestion. If you cannot continue with one type of writing, try another. 
If you keep writing in some other way, you are still writing. If you are blocked 
in one way, you can unblock in another. Sometimes this may even help you 
with the problem that caused the original blockage. 
The list of strategies suggested by our groups of PhD researchers was as 
follows: 
Box 11.4. Writer’s block strategies and ­ 
solutions
a.	 I tell myself to persevere and that determination will win out.
b.	 I walk away and do something completely different.
c.	 I skip what I am writing and try another writing task.
d.	 I change the location of where I write.
e.	 I change the time of day when I write.
f.	
I play some soothing music.
g.	 I offer myself some kind of reward or incentive.
h.	 I talk to someone about the blockage.
i.	
I talk to myself about the blockage. 
j.	
I print out a section of my work and examine it off-screen.
k.	 I try to get inspiration from reading something relevant.
l.	
I write to myself before I walk away. 
The solutions or strategies that will best suit your own circumstances cannot 
easily be predetermined, although a safe prediction can be made that perse-
verance alone (strategy a) is unlikely to succeed. Strategies b–g offer a range 
of practical solutions, any of which may be of some help. Strategies h–l are 
perhaps the most likely to be effective on a consistent basis, for reasons 
which were discussed earlier in this chapter section. 
168  The PhD Writing Handbook
Perhaps, the most useful general advice is to try to become more aware 
of how you approach writing and the small steps that you can take that 
can make a real difference in achieving success. An interesting awareness-
raising experience is to be shadowed in your daily activities. This happened 
to me at a university where I once worked as a head of department and 
where as part of a research project I was accompanied by a Master’s level 
management student. This person followed me everywhere I went during 
my working hours, noting down everything that I did and drawing conclu-
sions on how I spent my time. The findings were predictable: it seemed 
that I was wasting many hours of the day on seemingly unimportant tasks, 
most of which involved the telephone (as these events took place in the pre-
digital age). 
This was the first time I had really thought about my professional activi-
ties in a measured way. The obvious conclusion appeared to be that I could 
become much more efficient and could allocate more time to a larger 
number of activities, thus achieving more. However, the more I reflected 
on this, the more I realized that the time that I was apparently wasting was 
actually of great importance. In a stressful job, I was giving myself as much 
breathing space as I could and therefore allowing myself time to think. 
Similarly, one possible solution for writer’s block is to give yourself the 
time, space and distance that you need. Rather than forcing yourself to 
write, taking a break at exactly the right time can actually help. This is not 
because distracting yourself is necessarily a solution but because your brain 
does need to recover from the tiredness caused by the demands of first draft 
writing. If you are engaged in an activity that requires your complete atten-
tion, then from time to time you will need to provide some space to allow 
new creative ideas to come in – including solutions to problems that may 
appear to be virtually insoluble. At the same time, allowing some distance to 
emerge between yourself and the sources of a block may provide you with 
the opportunity to develop a new perspective on what you have written. 
  Coping with rejection
Self-motivation for writing needs to be nurtured not only during the years of 
PhD study but also as part of a career in academia. Submitting early drafts 
of texts to a PhD supervisor may be the first occasion (but it will not be the 
last) when your written work is subjected to rigorous criticism and possible 
­rejection. The first time that you submit an article to a respected journal only 
to see it rejected can constitute a major blow to both your self-confidence 
and your ability to motivate yourself for further writing. Similarly, when a 
Motivating Yourself to Write  169
chapter submitted to a PhD supervisor receives negative feedback, this can 
be an important event in your development as a research writer. 
The first reaction to rejection is usually a mix of shock and anger. Most 
reputable academic journals will provide feedback that is both useful and 
informative if you consider it carefully. Some of the criticism will be justified, 
some perhaps not. First, you must recover from the psychological blow of 
realizing that your efforts have been considered inadequate by specialists in 
your field. In a normal series of events, you will then absorb the feedback, 
pick yourself up and overcome your disappointment. This process is likely 
to repeat itself throughout your career until you establish a reputation as an 
accomplished writer within your disciplinary area. 
When supervisors give feedback, they also have a duty to provide 
comments that are useful and informative (see Chapter  7). They may also 
be well equipped to advise you on how to turn rejection into renewed self-
motivation. One strategy is to ask them directly what they did the first time 
they had examples of their own writing rejected. Each will have a story to tell 
and words of advice to pass on. The following example is taken from a series 
of interviews with academics who have already established their reputation 
as writers within various fields. 
Box 11.5. A PhD supervisor’s perspective
This has happened to everyone at some point. The more you apply, the 
more you will be rejected but also the greater the chance that something 
will be accepted. You have to remind yourself that this also happens to 
professors who have been in the field for a long time. It also sometimes 
has to do with sending something to the wrong kind of journal. There 
may also be a subjective element in the peer-review process. The impor-
tant thing is not to take rejection personally. Always take it as an oppor-
tunity to reflect on what could have been done better. Share the feedback 
with someone else and then persevere. It’s part of the game. (Professor 
of gender studies) 
Looking from a publisher perspective is also useful when coping with 
rejection of articles submitted to journals. Publishers may have very large 
numbers of articles to process and to choose from. Your article may be of 
good quality, but a similar contribution may already have been accepted. 
We  assume that rejection means that our work is inadequate, but this 
170  The PhD Writing Handbook
assumption may well be wrong. The only certainty is that being rejected is 
part of life in academia. It is an experience that every research writer will go 
through in an increasingly competitive environment. 
1.	 During first draft writing, ensure that sufficient time and space is 
provided for self-monitoring. An important element within this process is 
to make yourself fully aware of the importance of the affective aspects 
of writing.
2.	At every stage of writing, examine your expectations to make sure that 
they are realistic.
3.	Find suitable ways of managing stress and overcoming perfectionist 
tendencies. There are a range of solutions from which you can choose.
4.	Consider a writing journal as a means of keeping track of your progress 
and maintaining self-motivation.
5.	Respond thoughtfully to both positive and negative feedback. Be willing 
to learn from mistakes and put them behind you.
Action Points
171
12 Reporting and 
­Analysing Research 
Findings
This chapter
• 
considers different approaches to reporting and analysing PhD 
research data as part of first draft writing
• 
discusses ways in which you can highlight and draw conclusions from 
your key findings 
  Structuring your data report
The expectation of many readers is that the data report section of the 
PhD thesis will define your work and highlight its originality and even its 
­uniqueness. Such readers may be impressed by the depth of analysis within 
your literature review or the quality of your research design, but arguably, 
what will interest them most will be the research findings themselves and 
your interpretation and analysis of what you have found. 
Some writers consider this to be the most complex and demanding 
element of the PhD thesis, while others such as Dornyei (2007: 280) believe 
that it is relatively straightforward because there are well-established 
formats to guide writers. However, while there may be agreed formats in 
certain disciplinary areas, difficult choices may need to be made in others. 
There are a number of potential danger areas to consider:
• 
The quantity of data collected may cause some writers to feel that they 
are blocked at the very beginning of the reporting exercise.
• 
The report and accompanying analysis may fail to do justice to the 
quality of the data collected.
172  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
If key findings are not clearly highlighted, the reader may become lost 
amidst all of the detail.
• 
It may be difficult to achieve a clear structure for the narrative element 
and coherence for both narrative and analysis. 
To provide a clear structure for the data report, there is sometimes an 
assumption that a PhD thesis should contain a ‘results’ chapter, as is often 
the case at Master’s level. Brewer (2007: 144) talks in these terms when 
he says: 
The results chapter needs to present clearly the findings that you have estab-
lished. This is more difficult than it may sound, and prior planning of the 
chapter and in particular the order in which results are to be presented is 
necessary. 
The idea of a ‘results chapter’ may be appropriate in some cases but seems 
over-simplistic for many research projects at PhD level. However, this author 
is justified in pointing out that structuring such a chapter (or chapters) will 
require a careful consideration of all of the available options. An added 
difficulty is that you will also need to decide how to balance the reporting of 
what you have found with your analysis of the findings. Will you tell a story 
without interruption and then go on to analyse the events that take place? 
Will your analysis be built into the narrative as it progresses? How can this 
be achieved while maintaining the coherence of your narrative? 
Deciding how to conduct data reporting and analysis can have significant 
consequences and can radically alter the final PhD thesis. It is therefore 
worth considering first of all how your data reporting might be structured. 
Here are some of the more common alternatives. 
According to your data collection methods
This is a very simple way of organizing and displaying research findings. For 
example, data from questionnaires is reported, followed by interview data 
and finally observation notes. The main drawback of this type of approach 
is that your analysis will need to link findings from different data sources 
as part of a triangulation process. Giving an account of the data from each 
source separately is unlikely to provide a sufficient basis for analysis. In addi-
tion, text organized along these lines will tend be predictable and even dull. 
Quantitative data followed by qualitative data
This approach has similar drawbacks to the one described above. However, 
reporting on quantitative data followed by qualitative within each section 
of a chapter is a possibility. The analysis could then be conducted section 
Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings  173
by section, drawing together the different data sources. One PhD writer 
comments, ‘This is possible if the reader needs one or the other first. An 
example would be where interviewees are chosen on the basis of ­quantitative 
data from questionnaires. But in many arts and humanities subjects, it would 
still be abnormal and not taken seriously’. 
Based on research questions or hypotheses
Organization according to research questions or hypotheses is common 
practice in many disciplines, with sections of chapters focusing on each 
individual research question or each numbered hypothesis. For those who 
consider research questions which are articulated at the beginning to be the 
fundamental building blocks of the research, this would be a suitable way to 
proceed. However, this is sometimes considered to be a rather unimagina-
tive option, especially in cases where different research questions produce 
results of varying quality. 
According to designated qualitative data analysis categories: key 
themes applied to the data or emerging from the data itself
Organization according to data analysis categories is popular (and ­sometimes 
mandatory) in many disciplines that encourage qualitative research. These 
data categories can be predetermined and imposed on the data, or they can 
be more fluid, emerging from the data as it is collected. The latter approach 
is associated with the type of ethnographic studies conducted in disciplines 
such as anthropology or sociology. 
Whichever structure you choose will depend on a number of variables: 
• 
the requirements of the disciplinary area(s) associated with the research
• 
the type of research questions and hypotheses that you have formulated
• 
the different types of data that you have collected
• 
your preferred reporting style
• 
the way in which you intend to integrate analysis into the report 
The last point is one of the most important choices that you will be required 
to make. Your tasks are to report the findings clearly and coherently, to add 
your own analysis and to draw conclusions. There are two basic options for 
achieving this:
1.	 Report your data (tell the story) and then analyse later. (‘Here is what I 
have found. Now let us consider what it all means … .’).
	
Intuitively, this may seem the more logical and more straightforward 
choice. However, building a long narrative can be more complex than 
174  The PhD Writing Handbook
it first appears. In the analysis, a partial retelling of the narrative may 
also be required so that links between the two are clearly established. 
The result can be that you are led into unintentionally repeating yourself 
many times.
2.	 Report the data and weave the analysis into the narrative. The story 
is told section by section, and you analyse as you go along. (‘The first 
finding was … This seems to indicate that … .’).
	
Weaving analysis into the tapestry of a narrative can be the most complex 
task in first draft writing but (arguably) one of the most rewarding. Each 
discussion of analytical points will cause you to digress from the story that 
you are reporting. The reader will require clear guidance in this process so 
as not to lose the thread of both narrative and accompanying analysis. 
In fact, certain disciplinary areas may not allow a choice in this matter. 
Cargill and O’Connor (2012: 33) claim that certain science disciplines may 
issue guidelines advising that the ‘results’ and ‘discussion’ of experiments 
be presented separately, while others may allow a blending of narrative and 
analysis. Rules of engagement can be strict: 
If the separate style is used, it is generally important to confine any comments 
in the Results section to saying what the numbers show, without comparing 
them with other research or suggesting explanations.
At the other extreme, disciplines that promote data collection through ethno-
graphic studies will generally proscribe the separation of data reporting 
and analysis. Emerson, Fretz and Shaw (1995) note that ethnographers are 
generally advised to develop a ‘thematic narrative’ when reporting their data: 
Writing a thematic narrative differs fundamentally from writing an analytic 
argument, both in the process of putting that text together and in the struc-
ture of the final text. Structurally, in a text which presents a logical argument, 
the author sets forth a formal thesis or proposition in the introduction as a 
stance to be argued, then develops each analytic point with evidence logi-
cally following from and supporting the propositional thesis. In contrast, an 
ethnographic story proceeds through an intellectual examination of evidence 
to eventually reach its contributing central idea. 
You will need to discover the kind of logic that your readers will expect when 
reporting findings as part of first draft writing. Some questions to ask your-
self can include the following: 
• 
Will I be expected to report my results and analyse them as I present 
them?
Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings  175
• 
Will I be expected to provide a selection of key findings, a summary of all 
the findings or both?
• 
What kind of structure will be expected for the reporting of my data?
• 
Will I be required to use certain fixed formats for displaying data?
• 
If an interesting finding emerges, will it be appropriate to compare it with 
the findings of other researchers?
• 
When drawing conclusions, will I be expected to refer back to the litera-
ture as well as to my results? 
  Reporting quantitative data
The aim of this section is to consider ways in which different types of quan-
titative data can be displayed and integrated into a text in order to report 
research findings. The emphasis here is on applying principles of clarity, 
conciseness and coherence rather than on considering in detail the merits 
and demerits of using tables, charts or other display formats. For this type of 
discussion, see, for example, Booth, Colomb and Williams (1995), Dunleavy 
(2003) or Dornyei (2007). 
The guidelines that follow may not be needed by research writers in 
arts and humanities disciplines, where there is often a strong emphasis on 
qualitative research. They are also not intended as a detailed guide to report 
writing in science or social science disciplines: they do not, for example, 
provide advice that will help writers conduct the kind of statistical reasoning 
that forms the basis of the analysis of research findings in many areas. Useful 
help of this type is available elsewhere and is most unlikely to be generic: it 
is perhaps best provided from a range of disciplinary perspectives by authors 
such as Bruce, Pope and Stanistreet (2008) for health sciences, Howitt and 
Cramer (2003) for psychology or Seale (2004) for social sciences. Instead, we 
will consider how a ‘clear presentation’ of data can be best achieved. You 
will need to take into account the following steps: 
1.	 Make an informed decision concerning what to include and what to exclude. 
It is unlikely that all of the data that has been collected can be included 
within your data report. Your selection decisions will depend on your 
research aims and the nature of the findings: you will normally include 
information that is new, surprising or of clear significance to readers in 
your field while excluding, summarizing or glossing over data which 
does not appear to fit these criteria. 
2.	 Highlight ‘key findings’ in context. The more important the informa-
tion that you wish to include, the more prominently it will need to be 
displayed. However, at this stage the context (other variables, other data 
176  The PhD Writing Handbook
sets, for example) will also be needed; therefore, such findings cannot 
be presented in isolation. Your task will be to ensure that the most 
­important information stands out so that it can be carefully analysed. 
3.	 Make the right choice of data display format. The way you present your 
data is a question of choice. Here are some general points to consider:
• 
Use tables rather than charts for large amounts of statistical data 
where great detail is required.
• 
Use charts rather than tables to summarize and highlight certain 
aspects of the data, especially the comparison of key variables.
• 
Pay careful attention to the labelling of both charts and tables to 
avoid ambiguity.
• 
Consider using other ‘nonstandard’ formats such as maps or 
diagrams if they will help you to highlight important aspects of your 
data. Maps, for example, can be highly effective in showing the 
geographical spread of responses in a simple and straightforward 
way. 
4.	 To enable your readers to gain a perspective on what the data really means, 
plan a logical series of breakdowns. Start with a more general or overall 
breakdown as in the example below based on data received from English 
language teachers where the scaled answers (0.00 – 3.50) refer to 
perceived frequency of use of technological devices: 
Interactive
whiteboard
How often do you use the types of hardware listed below in your teaching?
Electronic dictionary
Phones (your
students’)
Tablets (your
students’)
Tablets (yours)
Laptop
Personal
Computer (PC)
Data projector
DVD player
Audio/CD player
0.00
0.50
1.00
2.00
1.50
2.50
3.00
3.50
Phone (yours)
Fig 12.1 Use of technology in the English language classroom: an 
­overview
Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings  177
Having provided an overall picture of technology use in the classroom, 
you can now proceed to more detailed breakdowns. You could, for 
example, explore the reasons for using particular technological devices 
related to the type of teaching or learning activity; you could present data 
that compare the use of mobile and non-mobile technology; you could 
divide the use of technology by teachers or students into three separate 
areas (during class time, as part of lesson preparation time, as an inte-
gral part of follow-up activities set as homework); you could focus on 
attitudes towards particular technological devices within each of these 
distinct areas. 
For each separate breakdown, you will need to answer the follow-
ing questions based on a checklist originally suggested by Denscombe 
(1998): 
• 
What is my aim in displaying this particular data set?
• 
Is the choice of table, chart or other format appropriate?
• 
Have my tables, charts and other display formats been thoughtfully 
designed?
• 
Are tables and charts clearly labelled?
• 
Is there a danger of information overload?
• 
What further breakdowns might be required? 
5.	 Remember that the management of reader expectations is never more 
important than in chapters where you report your own data. If you report 
on another person’s research, readers will have the option of checking 
the reference to make sure that they have understood. With your find-
ings, there is a need to be absolutely clear since there is no other source. 
If you have high-quality data, you cannot do justice to it if it becomes 
unclear as a result of your reporting. 
After the data that you have selected has been clearly and carefully 
displayed, analysis may begin based on the narrative revealed by the 
numbers that you have presented. The ways in which you interpret your 
results may vary according to your disciplinary area, but the underlying 
aim of transforming data into ‘new knowledge’ remains the same. 
  Reporting qualitative data
According to Miles and Huberman (1994) qualitative data is suited to ‘locat-
ing meanings that people place on the events, processes and structures 
of their lives’. The focus is on naturally-occurring phenomena and natural 
settings, while there is an emphasis on richness, depth, and complexity. 
When writing up qualitative data, it is not as easy to prescribe choices in the 
178  The PhD Writing Handbook
way that Dunleavy, Dornyei and other writers suggest for ­quantitative data. 
Because qualitative data tends to be richer and more detailed, it is often 
more difficult to decide:
1.	 How much data should be reported? How much should be included in the 
text of ‘reporting chapters’ and how much added in appendices?
2.	 Which display formats are most suitable? Can qualitative data be reduced 
or summarized without changing its nature? How can you balance within 
these formats your own voice and those of participants in your research? 
How much data should be reported?
It is not uncommon for writers to feel overwhelmed by the quantity of quali-
tative data collected and the task of reporting and analysing such data. How 
you do justice to this data and to the informants who have provided it is also 
a major concern. As a result, you may find it difficult to begin the report-
ing process unless you have a clear plan for data selection and reduction. 
According to Dey (1993: 242): 
Research is essentially an exercise in selection. If we still harbour any linger-
ing illusions on this point, the discipline of producing an account of our 
analysis should dispel them. 
This author recommends producing a tree-shaped diagram to represent the 
main and subsidiary themes of the research and the relevant data in each 
area. Decisions can then be made concerning which branches should be 
pruned and which should be allowed to flourish. 
Many writers publish complete transcripts of raw qualitative data in the 
appendices section of their research. Even if some of this data has not been 
reported and analysed in detail, such transcripts may be of interest to many 
readers. The value of your original transcripts should not be underestimated. 
Which display formats are most suitable?
Single quotations
The actual words that people use to express their views can be a more 
powerful source of evidence within a narrative than a reported, paraphrased 
or summarized version. Booth, Colomb and Williams (1995: 207) suggest 
that paraphrasing sources should be reserved for cases ‘when you are more 
interested in findings and data than in how a source expresses them’. Actual 
quotations, on the other hand, give stronger emphasis to the speaker and 
their voice, meaning that research participants can achieve a degree of 
empowerment by gaining a presence within the report of your findings. Their 
Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings  179
voice will have been heard by others. One word of warning, however, comes 
from Holliday (2002), who argues that in some cases verbatim data can 
also ‘serve to reduce, rather than enhance, the humanity of the participant’ 
depending on the way in which it is reported within your text. Your task is to 
ensure that quotations do not in any way misrepresent the views of speakers 
or writers. 
Multiple quotations
Qualitative research that depends heavily on multiple block quotations 
presents a problem for the writer. How can such evidence be displayed 
within the text without interrupting the flow of narration and analysis? 
Tables of quotations can provide a straightforward answer, presenting text 
rather than statistical data. In the following example, English language 
teachers are being interviewed to elicit attitudes to a new coursebook (Q3). 
Answers to this question can easily be compared using this format, with any 
interesting points of contrast or comparison highlighted. Responses to other 
questions (Q4, Q5) could also be added to this table to extend the display and 
its ability to allow certain themes to emerge for analysis: 
Table 12.1 Multiple block quotations from a data report
Interviewee
Q3. Overall effectiveness of the coursebook
Teacher 1
The coursebook more or less covers all areas. Writing ­activities 
are the most interesting, reading is quite limited and texts 
are easy. Some nice speaking activities but I often link activi-
ties ­together or supplement them to adapt them to my students’ 
needs.
Teacher 2
The book is not good enough for me. It’s really messy, chaotic. 
There is a good deal of stuff inside the book, but it’s not easy for 
the student to make sense of it, because it is not presented in an 
organized way. 
Teacher 3
Listening, speaking, reading and writing are equally and success-
fully distributed in the coursebook. Pronunciation is not covered, 
but it’s not that necessary, because it’s quite advanced for this 
level. 
Teacher 4
All of the coursebook skills are poor. The texts (listening and 
reading) are poor, and they don’t offer opportunities for follow-up 
questions, discussion, speaking.
Teacher 5
The coursebook has limited grammar. I would like to have more 
exercises. The speaking activities are not bad, but beginner level 
students find them difficult. 
180  The PhD Writing Handbook
Case studies
According to Grbich (2007), case studies can be presented in different 
‘subformats’. They might consist of narratives delivered by participants in 
their own words, summaries of participant testimony provided by an author 
or a mix of the two. Yin (1994) identifies four distinct reporting varieties, 
ranging from straightforward single descriptive narratives to complex multi-
ple narratives. Whichever approach you choose, you will be producing some 
kind of illustrative account of events highlighting specific issues that are rele-
vant to your research. Case studies are widely used for reporting research 
data in areas such as law, medicine, public administration and management. 
Vignettes
A vignette is a slightly different type of illustrative story, often used to 
clarify a particular point or perspective regarding some finding in the data. 
The stories are presented in an indirect manner as in the fabricated example 
below: 
Box 12.1. A sample vignette
Y, a 93 year old British woman of Irish descent, was referred to a 
neuropsychologist for assessment by the Thames stroke unit following 
an ischaemic attack. She reported left-sided weakness, feeling disorien-
tated and frequently fatigued. She is widowed and lives alone but has 
family members visiting regularly and assisting with care. The neuropsy-
chologist  assessed her verbal memory, visual memory, processing 
speed and cognitive abilities and found a significant decline across 
most modalities, which is consistent with her son’s observations of her 
changes. He noticed that her short term memory has declined whilst 
her long term memory functioning was relatively intact. She was able 
to recount specific autobiographical memories in vivid detail of her role 
in the Second World War, yet unable to recall recently asked informa-
tion. During the assessment, when asked background information, she 
discussed a specific date 60 years ago, including what she ate, the colour 
of her uniform and the names of all her colleagues in her regiment. 
Results also indicated that Y has several strengths, such as her visual-
processing abilities and abstract reasoning. A specific rehabilitation plan 
should be implemented (commencing next week) with assisted physical 
care when her family is not able to visit, in order to recover from the 
effects of her recent stroke and challenges. 
Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings  181
In a research context vignettes allow you to report the experiences of vulner-
able participants in an indirect way with minimal possibility of identifying 
the people concerned. They are commonly used in psychology and different 
branches of medicine, but I have also seen them used effectively in social 
science areas such as religious studies, describing, for example, cases of 
apostasy where the research participants might be in danger if their identi-
ties were revealed. 
Layers
The data that you have collected may also be displayed in layers, defined as 
‘the interweaving of different voices to juxtapose their views, for example 
sequential narratives on how an accident happened or how a marriage 
was broken.’ (Grbich 2007). A layered data display is useful when different 
perspectives need to be included within a single report. A more complex 
version of this is known as a pastiche, in which fragments of data represent-
ing different views of participants may be juxtaposed. For more information 
about both types of display, see Frost (2011). 
There are many excellent sources of further guidance in the report-
ing and subsequent analysis of qualitative data. Dey (1993), Hammersley 
and Atkinson (1983), Miles and Huberman (1994) and Cresswell (2003) all 
provide in-depth discussions that can build on the ideas presented briefly in 
this section. 
  Drawing conclusions
Whether you are reporting quantitative data, qualitative data or a mix of 
the two, the way in which you present the conclusions drawn from your 
key findings will define your work and may determine its degree of success. 
In this final section, we present some practical guidelines to help you achieve 
this. See also the comments in Chapter 6, Section 2, on writing ‘Conclusions’ 
chapters. 
Clearly highlight your key findings
As indicated in the previous sections of this chapter, the first important step 
in providing meaningful analysis is to isolate and highlight key findings. 
These could be categorized as those which appear to be:
• 
the most relevant in terms of research questions and hypotheses
• 
the most interesting, allowing new ideas and theories to emerge
• 
the most convincing, building on ideas from previous research
182  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
the most surprising, contradicting your own assumptions and those of 
other writers or producing different results from previous research 
Explain the significance of the findings to researchers in your field
All of the above elements may contribute to the perceived significance of 
your research findings. The next step is to prioritize, explaining which find-
ings appear to be most significant for readers in your field or related fields. 
An example is given below from my own research into post-1989 changes in 
the education system in Slovakia: 
Box 12.2. Teachers’ changing perceptions of 
students, students’ parents and themselves
Another type of change which Slovak teachers are having to adjust to 
concerns their own roles as teachers, and their relationship with students 
and the parents of students. The evidence from the case study data shows 
that teachers are finding it difficult to come to terms with what they feel is 
a reduced status for themselves in the post-1989 educational world. The 
tradition of the ‘teacher-scholar’ (see previous section) seems long gone, 
and teachers feel less appreciated, especially by parents (see, for example, 
comments by A. p.157). A highly experienced gymnazium teacher, M. 
(p.173 & 169) believes that in the new Slovakia people are generally 
more business-oriented and respect businessmen more and the teaching 
profession less, while children emulate their parents’ diminishing respect 
by being less well-behaved in class. In all of the focus group interviews 
there were some participants who lamented the general decline in student 
behaviour, which they explain in one of two ways: either students are less 
passive and more ready to question the teacher’s authority (M., p.161), or 
students have been influenced by the lack of stimulus at home and the 
fact that education is not valued as much as it was (S., p.161).
In the new post-1989 Slovakia some students now have opportuni-
ties to travel to English-speaking countries which were denied to their 
parents. In the opinion of G., (p.174), this puts extra pressure on teach-
ers of English, since such students are likely to return speaking English 
which they judge to be more fluent than that of their teachers. While 
teachers believe that in terms of language knowledge and accuracy they 
are still well ahead of even those students who travel abroad (see A’s 
comments, p.178), nevertheless they realize that returnees can seriously 
disrupt the way in which they teach their classes and thus threaten their 
authority. (Thomas 1999) 
Reporting and ­Analysing Research Findings  183
In this particular case, the change in perception of teacher status was a 
major finding. The significance of this finding was emphasized in two ways:
• 
by referring back to the literature on the ‘teacher-scholar’ and the 
assumptions made by writers, which appeared to be out of date
• 
by referring to sources within the data itself to corroborate the finding 
The analysis could then continue by examining the implications of these 
apparent threats to the authority of teachers in a changing educational envi-
ronment. 
Critically reflect on the research process itself
For most writers this consists of pointing out one or two limitations in the 
study or gaps that need to be filled by other researchers – a standard conven-
tion within ‘Conclusion’ sections of PhD theses. However, it is possible and 
fruitful to take this process a little further. The end point of your data collec-
tion and analysis provides an excellent opportunity to reflect on the whole 
process of research design, planning of data collection, implementation of 
data collection, data analysis and even the process of writing up the data. 
The following are the kind of questions you could ask yourself and attempt 
to answer:
• 
What aspects of the research design appear to have been the most and 
least successful?
• 
How satisfied am I with the quality of the data that was collected?
• 
What choices did I make in planning and implementing data collection? 
In retrospect, would I make any different decisions?
• 
How successful have I been in linking the findings of my research to the 
concerns of readers in my field (or related fields)?
• 
If I were to replicate this research with the same focus and questions, 
what would I do differently? 
1.	 Before determining the structure and approach of your data report, 
consider the expectations of important readers, such as your 
supervisor(s). The decisions that you make will have a significant effect 
on how you communicate your findings.
2.	Ensure that your data is clearly displayed either within the text or in 
appendices before you begin to conduct your analysis. Key decisions 
Action Points
184  The PhD Writing Handbook
concern what to include or exclude and how you will highlight main find-
ings through well-chosen display formats.
3.	Display data in sequential steps, beginning with an overall view and 
gradually narrowing down to specific details.
4.	Pay careful attention to the labelling of any charts, tables or diagrams so 
that you avoid ambiguity.
5.	Highlight the most relevant, most interesting, most convincing and most 
surprising findings when you read through your data and when you 
report it in writing.
6.	Critically reflect on the whole process of identifying and writing up key 
findings: these reflections can form an important part of the final chapter 
of your thesis.
185
13 Completing your PhD 
Thesis
This chapter 
• 
outlines the final stages of PhD thesis writing
• 
explores the editing process and provides a series of practical check-
lists to help you edit different aspects of your work
• 
examines the role of oral presentations both as a means of clarifying 
your thinking and as preparation for the viva 
  Writing the final version
Once the first draft has been completed and major revisions such as the 
reordering, division or exclusion of chapters have taken place, a new phase 
in writing can begin. This editing stage may still involve making substantial 
changes that will affect chapter content, such as: 
• 
seeing whether the same or similar ideas are unintentionally repeated in 
different parts of the text and taking appropriate action
• 
looking for unexplained contradictions in different parts of the text and 
deciding whether you need to justify or remove them
• 
cutting entire paragraphs or chapter sections that seem to create unnec-
essary digressions from your main arguments 
At the other extreme, there will be more detailed changes that need to be 
made in your text. These are the types of changes that Murray (2002) refers 
to when she draws a distinction between editing and ‘polishing’ a text:
This is the time for revisions so fine that they do not seem worth making. It 
all begins to seem a bit pedantic, with more attention to the correctness of 
grammar and punctuation than to the research and your contribution. This 
is as it should be. 
186  The PhD Writing Handbook
Understanding the differences between the different types of editing is a 
necessary part of the writing process. Arguably, ‘polishing’ or proofreading 
a text should come at the very end, once other aspects of editing have been 
completed. Before this final stage, it is advisable to work through a series 
of other checklists that you can use as clear points of reference when you 
re-read your first draft. 
Editing checklists are a useful tool as part of the process of monitoring 
progress in writing: when you are aiming to improve your writing through 
editing, you will need to break this process down, as there are so many 
different aspects of writing that can be problematic. Some will be easier to 
address than others. You will find it helpful to refer to three distinct kinds of 
lists, each of which will be examined in turn, relating to text content, structure, 
coherence, clarity and style. Finally, a separate list will be needed to help you 
check the punctuation, spelling, grammar and layout of each chapter in turn. 
Content checklists
Content-editing lists serve two distinct purposes. First, they can remind you 
of all of the different elements that will need to be included in a standard PhD 
thesis and how they can be made to relate to each other effectively. Note that 
for ‘Creative’, ‘by papers’ PhDs or professional doctorates, an adapted list 
of items will be required. Second, they can help you check for more general 
content-related issues, such as missing or superfluous information in your text. 
Table 13.1 Content checklist A
Included? Finalized?
Your comments
Thesis title
Abstract
Acknowledgements
Table of contents
List of figures/maps/charts/diagrams
Glossary of key terms/abbreviations 
or symbols used
Statement of research aims
Statement of research questions
Context/background/reasons for the 
research
Principal claims or hypotheses and 
their significance
Completing your PhD Thesis  187
All (or some) of the boxes in this list may need to be ticked. Have all rele-
vant items been included? Have they been finalized or do they require further 
attention? Among these items, you may need to pay particular attention to 
checking the following: 
Your abstract: The abstract is an important document that needs to be well 
crafted and polished ‘like a sign outside a shop inviting customers to come 
in’, according to one PhD student. In particular, you will need to confirm that 
the content of the abstract and that of the introductory chapter match each 
other without any apparent inconsistencies. 
Your research questions: These may need to be revisited even at this late 
stage. Can they be expressed more clearly to eliminate any form of ambigu-
ity? The same check should be applied to any hypotheses or claims. Do any 
questions or claims need to be omitted? 
Your literature review: There are many important points to confirm here:
• 
Is it clear what you are trying to achieve through your review?
• 
Do review sections do more than just report what others have to say 
about the underlying themes of your research?
• 
Have you clearly highlighted inconsistencies, things that other 
writers have missed or apparent contradictions in previous research 
findings?
• 
Are there any key authors or references missing that should be 
included? 
Theoretical frameworks for the 
research
Exploration of key concepts
Literature review
Description of research methodology 
and data collection methods
Reporting and analysis of data
Summary of key findings
Conclusions from the findings, their 
implications and significance
Bibliography and references
Appendices
188  The PhD Writing Handbook
Your data reporting and data analysis: This is another section of the thesis 
where a number of checks need to be applied:
• 
Have you reported all the important findings emerging from your data?
• 
Have you achieved an appropriate balance between different perspec-
tives emerging from the data?
• 
Have links been established between your findings and previous research 
documented in the literature?
• 
Is there a suitable balance between data included within the text, data 
displayed in appendices and data that has not been reported?
• 
Have the identities of participants been anonymized when this is 
required? 
Your conclusions section: This needs to demonstrate the significance of the 
study and the contribution that it is making to your field of expertise. Check that 
all of the different strands of the research have been pulled together. If there 
any loose ends, these should be made explicit wherever possible. 
In addition to these items relating to specific sections of your text, there are 
also more general content-related issues that will need to be considered across 
all chapters. In each case, you will need to decide on the specific actions that 
are required. For example, in the first box of Table 13.2 below, ‘duplication of 
content in different chapters or sections’ might be addressed simply by cross-
referencing in cases where the duplication is intentional or necessary. On 
the other hand, in situations that involve unintentional duplication you might 
decide to move pieces of text from one chapter to another or to omit certain 
paragraphs altogether. It is worth bearing in mind that, initially, you might 
decide to do none of these but simply note the duplication for future reference. 
Table 13.2 Content checklist B
Editing task
Comments and actions
Check for duplication of content in ­different 
chapters or sections of the text
Move sections of text? Which? Where?
Omit sections of text? Which?
Cross-reference content?
Look for apparent contradictions in different 
parts of the text
Clarify any explanations that may seem 
unclear
Add or cut illustrative examples
Transfer content to tables, footnotes or 
­appendices
Completing your PhD Thesis  189
The basic actions for editing for content can be summarized for convenience:
• 
omitting text content
• 
reducing text content
• 
adding extra arguments or information
• 
reordering ideas within a text
• 
summarizing ideas within a text
• 
changing the words, expressions or sentences in some way
• 
clarifying the words, expressions or sentences in some way
• 
highlighting important information or arguments
• 
combining ideas within a text
• 
comparing and contrasting ideas within a text
• 
transferring or moving text content 
Any of these may play an important part in the editing process. Although 
most of the content will already be in place, your first draft will gain a 
sharper focus and an increased level of coherence once actions such as 
these have been performed. 
Structure checklist
This list will enable you to check the organizational breakdown of the thesis 
and the degree to which clear labelling helps with the effective management 
of reader expectations: 
Balance content between different chapters 
or chapter sections
Add words, phrases or sentences where you 
feel arguments have been diluted in some way
Reduce or increase the number of quotations 
and references within the text
Cut out any words, phrases or sentences that 
seem unnecessary
Table 13.3 Structure checklist
Checked? Finalized?
Your comments
Informative, inclusive thesis title
Clear labelling of chapters and chapter sections
Carefully drafted introductions
Interim and end-of-chapter conclusions
Signposting within the text: forward and 
backward referencing
➔
190  The PhD Writing Handbook
Although structural checks are largely self-explanatory, it is worth high-
lighting the following points. See Chapter 6 for further discussion of each. 
Chapter labels need to be substantive, relevant and accurate. Avoid 
repetition of labels that could cause the reader to become confused between 
different sections of your work. 
Chapter introductions need to be carefully crafted and indicate to the 
reader the aims and structure of the chapter. Stylistic devices such as intro-
ductory quotations should be used with care. 
Chapter conclusions need to summarize the content areas that have been 
covered and (in some cases) examine their implications. 
Signposting needs to be used consistently throughout the thesis. Important 
cross-references – looking back to previous chapters or looking ahead – need 
to be included wherever this will tighten the overall structure. 
Paragraphing also needs to be consistent throughout the thesis chapters. 
Check carefully for the over-organization and under-organization of text. 
The usual rule is one idea per paragraph. 
Coherence, clarity and style checklist
This list acts as a support mechanism to enable you to review the coherence 
of the entire text and any sections which seem unclear or where the style of 
writing seems inappropriate. 
Table 13.4 Coherence, clarity and style checklist
Checked? Finalized?
Your comments
The main point of a chapter or chapter sec-
tion is made clear to the reader within the 
introductory section
Carefully crafted topic sentences help to 
express the main information or arguments 
at paragraph level
Ideas are expressed concisely with all unnec-
essary repetition and redundancy eliminated
Unnecessary side-tracking and excessive 
exemplification is avoided
Clear and consistent paragraphing within the 
text
Avoidance of over-organization and 
­under-organization
Completing your PhD Thesis  191
Checks here need to be at sentence, paragraph and section level, identify-
ing in particular the following: 
Redundancy: Are there any redundant words or sentences that could 
be cut? Are there any sections that are over-referenced that could be cut 
down for the sake of fluency and coherence? Are there any unnecessary 
digressions that could usefully be cut? Could I make more use of footnotes 
to help effectively manage necessary digressions? For an excellent set of 
guidelines for making the best use of footnotes, see Eco (2015: 167–8), who 
argues that there are at least eight different ways of adding information in 
this way. 
Repetition: When repetition occurs, is it unnecessary or does it fulfil a 
useful purpose in highlighting important arguments? In the words of one 
PhD research writer, ‘Sometimes I write a sentence and discover that I’ve 
already written it somewhere else’.
Complexity: Are over-complex sentences the result of problematic gram-
matical constructions such as the overuse of abstract nouns? Should these 
sentences be expressed in a simpler way? If the problem is lexical, which 
words will need to be substituted? According to Wolcott (1990: 52): 
Every sentence containing any form of the verb to be is a candidate for rewrit-
ing in active voice if I can see a way to do it. Often I cannot, which makes it 
all the more important to improve other sentences as I am able. As I become 
aware of them, I also go on ‘search and destroy’ campaigns to ferret out over-
worked expressions and overused words. My current rampage is the word very. 
Hedging: Are key arguments and claims suitably hedged? Do any need to 
be reformulated as a result of the evidence contained in my findings? 
Unnecessarily complex sentences are 
avoided
Short disconnected sentences are avoided
The grammatical structure of sentences 
makes the meaning as transparent as 
­possible
Unnecessary imagery and exaggerated 
­language are avoided
Hedging language is used to qualify broad 
claims and assertions
The writing style is suitably formal and 
adheres to conventional norms within the 
discipline.
192  The PhD Writing Handbook
Style: Are there any stylistic devices (such as use of ‘I’ or ‘the researcher’) 
that need to be modified? Are stylistic devices used consistently throughout 
the thesis? Have style considerations been made subordinate to the need for 
clarity and coherence?
Some further comments on style are worth noting. Murray (2002: 239) 
sensibly suggests reading your text aloud to a friend to see how the text 
‘sounds’ in terms of its style. This is an idea that works for many writers. 
Remember also the wise words of Wolcott (1990: 48): ‘I have never met 
anyone who reads qualitative studies for their style.’ 
Proofreading checklist
This checklist is for polishing the final version of each chapter, looking at 
details such as punctuation, spelling and accuracy of references. 
Table 13.5 Proofreading and presentation checklist
Checked? Finalized?
Your comments
Page numbers
Accuracy of bibliographical 
­references
Consistency of citation style
Cross-referencing to specific pages
Labelling of appendices
Labelling of diagrams and charts, 
numbering of tables and boxes
Punctuation
Spelling
Grammatical and lexical accuracy
Word count
Line spacing and margins
This is the checklist that will help you ensure that page numbers are 
checked, diagrams and appendices are labelled and punctuation and 
grammar are closely observed. The presentation format of every page of the 
PhD thesis needs to be closely scrutinized. 
The style that you adopt in compiling your bibliography will depend on 
a mix of disciplinary requirements and personal preferences. There is a 
considerable range of styles from which to choose. Endnote bibliographical 
software now claims that it offers more than 5,000 different ‘output styles’. 
Whatever your preferred style, you will need to check for consistency of use 
as well as the accuracy of your individual references. 
Completing your PhD Thesis  193
Appendices also require careful attention. Labelling needs to be clear and 
consistent. The sequencing of appendix material needs to follow a logical 
order, usually in parallel to the development of thesis chapters. Above all, 
remember to check that you have included within your text clear references to 
specific appendices that will enable interested readers to explore the contex-
tual information, extra documentation or data transcripts that have not been 
included in the main body of your PhD thesis. Some writers neglect this 
seemingly minor aspect of their work: the result is that readers are forced 
to discover for themselves the wealth of material that is often contained in 
appendices. 
Finally, you have arrived at the end of a long and sometimes difficult 
journey. All that remains is the PhD viva. 
  Oral presentations and writing
As a research project progresses, one very powerful way of developing 
and clarifying your thinking is by presenting your research orally to peers 
and tutors either within a disciplinary area or across disciplines. Although 
it might be argued that this aspect of PhD research should not be included 
in a handbook that focuses on writing, in fact there are strong connections 
between structured speaking and structured writing. Oral presentations often 
require the preparation of well-crafted written notes and the production of 
structured written handouts. The experience of presenting your research can 
also provide feedback that can be channelled into the writing of sections of 
specific chapters in the thesis.
The skills required for effective oral presentation are needed at various 
points of the PhD research process. Interim supervisory boards and upgrad-
ing panels may often require an oral presentation which is sometimes held 
in front of a larger audience. Presenting to peers at regular intervals is also 
expected within many disciplinary areas. Presenting at national and inter-
national conferences may take place in parallel with PhD research. Finally, 
there is the most significant event of all, the PhD viva. 
Many researchers worry disproportionately about their oral commu-
nication skills with reference to the viva. Presenting work in progress is 
a useful means of allaying such fears and providing you with the self-
confidence that you will need. You can also provide yourself with an 
opportunity to receive good quality feedback, sometimes from the most 
unexpected directions. 
When I was studying for a PhD in the early 1990s, we were required to 
present our work at regular intervals as part of a series of weekly seminars. 
At the time, many members of academic staff within the department would 
194  The PhD Writing Handbook
come along to lend their support. We were encouraged to present to this 
distinguished audience, who would ask questions and would generally be 
polite and patient listeners. On rare occasions, they might show some irrita-
tion or incredulity. Sometimes presenters would be asked a question that 
really made them think. This happened to me on one memorable occasion 
when I was presenting my research: the question was entirely unexpected, 
and I did not think it was particularly relevant. I made a polite, non-
committal reply, promising to think about it. Several days later when I was 
re-reading the draft of a chapter, the question came back to me. The more 
I thought about it, the more I began to realize that through a piece of inter-
esting lateral thinking, this member of my audience had suggested another 
possible direction for the research. An assumption that I had inadvertently 
made had been questioned to great effect. I followed up the new lead that I 
had unexpectedly been given, and eventually it became an important strand 
of my research. 
You can obtain great value from presenting research in progress, what-
ever stage you have reached. However, do not expect every experience to be 
comfortable or enjoyable. I have also had the negative experience of present-
ing some questionnaire data and having my research methodology clinically 
dissected by experts on survey design. As long as the experience is helpful as 
well as painful, we can benefit from it. If there are some inconsistencies or 
faults that other people perceive in our work, we should seek to know why. 
As discussed in the final section of Chapter 7, the important thing to remem-
ber is not to take such criticisms personally. 
Criteria for effective oral presentations
Three sets of criteria relating to oral presentations are now presented 
for consideration. The areas that will be explored in detail are Content, 
Structure and Communication Skills. As part of the final category, there 
will also be a brief consideration of the interactive skills required for 
question-and-answer sessions that follow many structured research 
presentations. 
Table 13.6 Oral presentation criteria checklist
CONTENT
• Too much or too little?
• Clear or unclear aims?
• Clear or unclear focus?
• Interest level?
• Originality?
• Use of sources and referencing? 
Completing your PhD Thesis  195
Box 13.1. Developing Content
•	 Length and timing of presenta-
tion?
•	 Amount of material covered?
•	 Aims and focus of presentation?
•	 Relevance and interest level of 
topic?
•	 Use of source materials?
Key Skill Area 1: Include exactly 
the right amount of material to fit 
the time available. Most speakers 
tend to prepare too much and talk 
for too long, allowing only limited 
opportunities for questions and 
discussion.
Managing a strict time limit (while using the time available to maximum 
effect) is an important skill for a presenter. You will need to break down your 
research content to reveal what lies at its core. Your enthusiasm for your 
topic area might lead you to believe that it is shared by everyone. As a result, 
you may feel that an extra few minutes or a few additional examples of inter-
esting findings cannot do anyone any harm. Resist this urge. 
To help researchers manage the oral presentation of their work, initiatives 
such as the University of Queensland’s ‘Three-minute Thesis Competition’ 
(see Appendix 1) have been devised and imitated around the world. In this 
STRUCTURE and 
COHERENCE
• Introduction and conclusion?
• Signposting?
• Use of visual aids and handouts?
• Main points clear?
• Arguments well developed and supported?
• Own standpoint clear?
COMMUNICATION 
SKILLS 
• Empathy with audience?
• Body language? (gestures, eye contact, movements)
• Use of voice? (speed of delivery, highlighting of key points 
through word and sentence stress, intonation, pauses)
• Use of speaker notes?
• Presentation of all written materials?
• Interactive skills when dealing with audience questions?
What makes a good oral presentation? Some speakers develop their skills 
intuitively, but a process of awareness raising and rationalization can help 
many others. Each of the three areas needs to be discussed in more detail 
and the most important skill areas identified. 
196  The PhD Writing Handbook
type of competition a strict time limit of three minutes is imposed, while an 
additional constraint is added in the form of an allowance of only one single 
PowerPoint slide. The ‘Three-minute Thesis’ is popular in many countries 
outside Australia, since it encourages participants to develop the kind of 
skills that they might also need to make use of within the context of a job 
interview or when talking to the media. 
The amount of content that you are able to cover within an oral presenta-
tion will be determined by four different factors: 
• 
the time limit that you have been allotted – complicating factors might 
be very restrictive limits allowing you only a short amount of time or the 
need to liaise with one or more co-presenters
• 
your speed of delivery
• 
the degree of complexity of the content and your audience’s ability to 
absorb it
• 
the expectations of audience members (see also Key Skill Area 3) 
Box 13.2. Structure and Coherence
•	 Introduction and conclusion?
•	 Signposting of different 
sections?
•	 Use of visual aids/handouts?
•	 Main points made clear?
•	 Arguments well developed 
and supported?
•	 Own standpoint clear?
Key Skill Area 2: Organize the presenta-
tion so that information and ideas are 
presented in a balanced and acces-
sible way – through a combination of 
spoken information, written informa-
tion in handouts or PowerPoint slides 
and visual information in the form of 
pictures, charts and diagrams.
An oral presentation is a structured event in which the audience may be 
exposed to varying sources of input: 
• 
the speaker’s voice
• 
the text of PowerPoint slides
• 
pictures and diagrams
• 
audio and video recordings
• 
written handouts 
An important skill area for any speaker involves knowing how to balance 
different inputs. There is little point in asking your audience to read large 
Completing your PhD Thesis  197
amounts of text while requiring that they listen to you at the same time: they 
will find it difficult to concentrate on both. At the other extreme, there is no 
need to read the content of your slides aloud, the only exception being where 
members of your audience are visually impaired in some way. To achieve a 
successful balance, it is worth considering the possible role for two impor-
tant additional types of input: slides and handouts. 
Slides can be of benefit to both members of the audience and speakers. They 
can help provide a clear structure for your talk if careful consideration is given 
to their sequencing and their number. One criticism of the ‘Three-minute Thesis 
Competition’ is that this benefit is removed because of the rule allowing only a 
single slide. In other situations, slides can provide a useful means of attracting 
audience attention at crucial points, thus helping to clarify and structure difficult 
content. This works for speakers too: you will find that you can dispense with 
written notes if slide selection and production have been skilfully managed. 
Clearly, slides have other functions as well. They can engage and motivate 
audiences; can be used to add pictures, audio or video to your presentation; 
and can act as a useful record of the event for those who have attended your 
talk. Their possible disadvantages can be carefully managed. These include a 
tendency to ‘bulletize’ and over-simplify information in cases where a more 
in-depth analysis is required. Slides may also create a degree of audience 
dependency: they are now such an integral part of most academic lectures 
that listeners may feel lost without the structural support that they provide. 
Handouts can add substantial value to oral presentations. They can 
supplement the oral input by providing an overview of the presentation itself 
or by adding more detailed descriptive information. Effective examples might 
include short extracts of research data, bibliographical references relating to 
the research, glossaries of key terms or concept definitions. All of these can 
be taken away to be used later by members of the audience as a record of 
the presentation and studied carefully. Detailed information of this type will 
be more difficult to convey effectively through slides. 
Handouts can also contain tasks or exercises that will help provide a 
break during an oral presentation. However, there will be implications for 
time management if you stop speaking and invite audience participation 
in this way, so you will need to make sure that such tasks have a serious 
purpose. The most successful tasks will challenge audience members and 
seek to engage them further within your chosen topic area. A good example 
might be to ask them to help you analyse a few data samples. 
When is the best time to distribute your handouts? Many speakers do 
this at the end, but this does not allow audience members to appreciate 
them during a talk or ask questions about them. If you talk in some detail 
about your data and fail to distribute the handout until you have finished 
198  The PhD Writing Handbook
speaking, this can frustrate an audience. On the other hand, you will also 
need to consider whether a handout given at the beginning or during a 
talk may prove to be an excessive distraction rather than a helpful means 
of support. 
Box 13.3. Communication Skills
•	 Use of notes to aid delivery?
•	 Use of voice? (speed of delivery, 
emphasis/highlighting, intonation)
•	 Use of body language?
•	 Avoidance of redundancy and 
repetition?
•	 Pronunciation of unfamiliar 
words?
•	 Highlighting of key words?
•	 Suitably academic style of 
­delivery?
•	 Interactive skills when dealing 
with audience questions?
•	 Rapport with audience achieved?
Key Skill Area 3: Successful com­
munication with an audience is 
achieved through a combination 
of factors related to delivery, as 
well as a willingness to be flexible 
when executing the original plan. 
Presentations should never be 100 
per cent prepared in advance and 
delivered without deviation. If no 
connection with the audience is 
established, it will be difficult for 
listeners to concentrate on what is 
being said.
The delivery of an oral presentation and the communication skills that 
are required to achieve an effective delivery can contribute significantly to 
success or failure. The key skill (which some speakers develop intuitively) is 
to build rapport and to empathize with your audience. Here are some ques-
tions to ask yourself: 
• 
Am I speaking too fast or too slow?
• 
Do I need to pause or to repeat some information to make sure that the 
audience can keep pace with what I am saying?
• 
Are my main points being conveyed clearly and concisely to this 
­audience?
• 
Why are so many people looking at their phones/at their watches/out of 
the window? 
It is possible to develop a certain degree of paranoia when you look for audi-
ence reactions. However, the body language of your audience can act as an 
Completing your PhD Thesis  199
important source of information. Rugg and Petre (2004: 139) describe some 
‘classic good and classic bad signs’ in this respect. Smiling and the nodding 
of heads can certainly act as a boost to your own self-confidence and raise 
your levels of enthusiasm concerning your talk – which in turn is likely to 
lead to more positive body language generally. There are many techniques 
for building rapport with an audience. The ‘essential tips’ section later in this 
chapter provides further details. 
Planning research-in-progress presentations
As is the case with reader expectations for written text, it is important to take 
audience expectations into account when planning the structure and content 
of an oral presentation. Here are some elements than can merit inclusion in 
a ‘research-in-progress’ talk: 
• 
your research topic or draft title
• 
your reasons for choosing this topic (and for rejecting other possibilities)
• 
your research questions and claims
• 
your research methodology and data collection methods
• 
influential sources: theoretical frameworks and individual writers
• 
your findings or expected findings
• 
problems encountered in the process of your research with solutions 
adopted 
You will need to build into your planning a clear consideration of how you 
will present the information and achieve an effective balance between what 
is presented: 
1.	 orally
2.	 in writing (the text of slides, handouts)
3.	 visually (pictures, charts, diagrams, data tables) 
Dealing with audience questions
To gain maximum benefit from an oral presentation, make sure that there is 
sufficient time for a question-and-answer session at the end. There are some 
useful skill areas to develop here: 
• 
Anticipating likely questions so that you are prepared for them: It is never 
possible or even desirable to anticipate every question. There will always 
be an unexpected component of each question-and-answer session. 
However, audiences will appreciate the fact that you have added this 
consideration to the planning of your presentation.
200  The PhD Writing Handbook
• 
Clarifying what questions mean: This is an important skill that some speak-
ers fail to develop. Sometimes, you may feel embarrassed by your inability 
to understand certain questions. Long-winded contributions or multiple 
questions asked all together can be particularly problematic. Honesty is 
best in such situations. Guessing what a questioner might or might not 
be asking could lead to far worse embarrassment. One effective means 
of clarifying questions is to summarize what you have understood and to 
check that this is a correct interpretation. (‘So what you are implying is…’)
• 
Dealing with questions that you cannot answer: This is another situation 
where honesty is the best policy. Do not make rash promises that you 
will be unable to keep, such as making a firm commitment to send an 
answer by email the next day.
• 
Knowing when to cut short the debate: This is a final skill area that all 
audiences will appreciate. You may be able to deliver a long and detailed 
answer to a particular question: resist the temptation to do so. Cut short 
the debate also in situations where one questioner is beginning to domi-
nate and where other audience members are showing signs of restless-
ness or irritation. 
The benefits of delivering well-planned, structured oral presentations can be 
summarized as follows. They can:
• 
help you to clarify your thinking in two ways – by the very act of having 
to structure your thoughts and as a result of audience feedback
• 
act as significant milestones, providing useful deadlines within the 
development of your research project
• 
produce ideas that can feed back into writing and can suggest new 
avenues to explore in your reading
• 
become an integral part of your experience as a researcher along with 
upgrading interviews, conference presentations, giving lectures and the 
PhD viva 
Box 13.4. Oral presentations:  
some essential tips 
Content and structure of the presentation
•	 Plan the presentation carefully but build in some flexibility.
•	 Do not try to include too much material. Quality is paramount.
•	 Respect time limits; allow time for questions.
➔
Completing your PhD Thesis  201
  The viva
In the following section, the experience of the PhD viva will be considered 
and in particular: 
• 
the role of the viva and its relationship to the research project
• 
preparing for the viva – some practical tips
• 
participating in the viva 
The role of the viva
The viva voce examination marks the end of a PhD research project. According 
to Rugg and Petre (2004), it is a ‘rite of passage’ whose main purpose is to 
demonstrate that you have the knowledge and skills to carry out research in 
your chosen disciplinary area. If you are successful, you will also be consid-
ered qualified to guide other less-experienced researchers through the same 
process while acting as a PhD supervisor. Compared to writing a text of 
80,000–100,000 words, it may appear be a relatively straightforward task. 
However, it represents a major obstacle for many research writers. 
•	 State the aims of the presentation at the beginning.
•	 Define key terms at the beginning.
•	 Cut down on detail. If this is important, you can always include it in a 
handout.
•	 Have a well-defined conclusion: Do not just run out of ideas. 
Delivery and communication skills 
•	 Do not read your paper – this is tantamount to talking to yourself. 
Address your audience and be sensitive to their reactions.
•	 Think of different modes of delivering information: balance oral infor-
mation with visual and with print (in the form of handouts).
•	 Make use of notes highlighting key points: Do not completely script 
your words.
•	 Be aware of body language (gestures, eye contact, facial expressions).
•	 Be aware of voice (intonation, volume, stress).
•	 Be aware of the speed of delivery.
•	 Draw attention to unfamiliar words: highlight if necessary in print.
•	 Be concise: cut out repetition and redundancy as far as possible.
•	 Use signposting expressions to clarify the presentation’s structure.
•	 Listen to questions carefully and give honest answers. 
202  The PhD Writing Handbook
There are two ways of considering the PhD viva:
1.	 as a wonderful opportunity to celebrate the end of a successful research 
project, receiving the acclaim of experts within the field
2.	 as the last (and possibly biggest) hurdle that needs to be overcome in the 
race towards successful completion 
The checklists in the next section suggest ways that will enable you to begin 
to distance yourself from position 2 and work steadily towards position 1. 
The viva should be an experience which is memorable for positive reasons 
and regarded as an opportunity rather than a threat. Too often this is not 
the case. 
Preparing for the viva
Be prepared to wait between handing in your thesis and the viva. There may 
be a feeling that you are somehow relinquishing control over your work by 
putting it into the public domain and that it is no longer your sole property 
once it is out there. Think of this in a positive way – examiners are reading 
your work with great interest. If you can, schedule your viva at a time of day 
when you are most productive (see Chapter 7). 
One potentially serious problem area is that after several months, you 
may feel differently about the text that you have written. You may have 
identified gaps in your text that you had not seen before. It is likely that 
examiners will see these too, so you should be prepared to justify them. 
Make sure you read your thesis through as if you were your own exam-
iner. Read the text critically, but do not focus exclusively on what you 
perceive to be problem areas or deficiencies. Think of the PhD not as a 
definitive piece of work and an end point to a particular debate. Most 
examiners will tend to see it as a kind of academic exercise and as ‘work 
in progress’. 
Adding sticky notes to certain sections of the text is a useful strategy. 
This allows you to have evidence ready to answer questions that you have 
anticipated. However, be prepared for a situation where you do not need 
to make as much use of these as you expected. Often your perceptions of 
problem or weak areas in the thesis will not be matched by examiners. At 
the very least, your stickers will show that you have engaged with your 
thesis at a detailed level. And if the prospect of the viva fills you with alarm, 
bear in mind that there are a number of other things that you can do before 
the day and on the day which can be of great help. These are summarized 
below: 
Completing your PhD Thesis  203
Box 13.5. Preparing for the viva
1.	Think back to your upgrading/confirmation interview
	
Although this may seem very distant in time, it is a valuable prepara-
tion for the final viva. What kind of written comments were recorded 
at the time? What do you remember learning from the experience?
2.	Practise the viva itself
	
Some supervisors are willing to organize mock vivas for research 
students who feel that this will be of benefit. Ideally, these should 
be conducted by academics who you do not know very well but who 
have a strong connection to your field of study.
3.	Develop your oral presentation skills
	
Giving conference or research seminar presentations can provide an 
excellent preparation for the viva, enabling you to develop a range of 
skills, including the ability to deal with unexpected questions. They 
can also boost your confidence, allowing you to approach the viva 
with a more positive attitude.
4.	Find recordings of viva interviews
	
These are not difficult to find. See, for example, http://www.angelpro-
ductions.co.uk/viva.htm and other recordings uploaded to YouTube.
5.	Talk to PhD students who have recently undergone a viva
	
Talking to people who have recently undergone their viva can be 
very beneficial. Although experiences can differ greatly, it is useful to 
learn more about the type of questions that may be asked, to discover 
different examining styles and to be warned about possible pitfalls.
6.	Anticipate the questions
	
These may include:
•	 Why did you decide to undertake this specific project?
•	 What are the main aims, questions and hypotheses?
•	 In what ways does this research make a significant contribution to 
your particular field of study or to related disciplinary areas?
•	 How do you justify your research methodology?
•	 What are the principal findings of this research project? How do 
they compare with the findings of other similar projects within the 
field?
•	 How has your thinking changed as a result of this research project?
•	 In hindsight, is there any aspect of the research that you would do 
differently? 
For additional general advice on preparing for the PhD viva, go to: https://www.vitae.
ac.uk/
204  The PhD Writing Handbook
Participating in the viva
The dynamics of a viva will change depending on the relationship between 
the two examiners and whether your supervisor is allowed to attend or not. A 
sympathetic supervisor can provide moral support even without being allowed 
to speak. The supervisor is also able to take detailed notes on the discussion, 
which can be a useful source of feedback, especially in those cases where you 
are required to make revisions or intend to publish your work. 
During the discussions, you will find yourself in disagreement with some 
of the arguments presented by examiners. Be prepared to stand your ground 
without giving an appearance of arrogance. Strategies that will help on the 
day include the following: 
• 
Listen to all questions carefully, and check that you fully understand 
what is expected of you. If you are not sure, do not hesitate to seek clari-
fication.
• 
Answer questions clearly and concisely. If you do not know the answer, 
say so. Do not be tempted to digress in order to show off your knowledge 
on related issues – this will irritate rather than impress. Resist the temp-
tation to deliver memorized answers.
• 
Stay closely connected to your written text, using specific arguments and 
evidence from within the thesis to strengthen the points that you make.
• 
Be prepared to take the initiative. If you think key points are being 
missed, point them out. ‘Defending a thesis’ does not mean adopting a 
purely defensive role.
• 
Respond to criticisms robustly if you think that they are unjustified, but 
have the confidence to agree if an examiner identifies a known weak 
area in your research. Your honesty in this respect will be appreciated. 
1.	 Make use of a series of checklists to help you edit first draft chapters. 
Check for content, structure, coherence, clarity and style.
2.	Proofread the final version of all chapters carefully: check also the 
abstract, table of contents, bibliography and appendices.
3.	Seek out opportunities to deliver ‘research-in-progress’ oral presenta-
tions as part of departmental seminar programmes and at conferences.
4.	Plan oral presentations carefully so that you make full use of a variety 
of oral, visual and written inputs. Allow time for question-and-answer 
discussion at the end: you may gain some valuable feedback on the 
progress of your research.
5.	Make a resolution to respect the PhD viva rather than fear it. Consider the 
viva as an opportunity to celebrate your work and not merely to defend it.
Action Points
205
14 Writing throughout an 
Academic Career
The final chapter of this book 
• 
considers how writing skills can be further developed beyond the 
production of a PhD thesis and throughout an academic career 
The writing skills that you develop as an accompaniment to PhD research 
will be put into practice on a regular basis and gradually refined throughout 
your academic career. According to Blaxter, Hughes and Tight (1998: 137) 
such skills will be a major factor in determining career development, promo-
tions and job satisfaction:
Writing is something that all academics engage in regularly: from writing 
notes and references on students, through committee papers, to reviews, 
articles and books. It is a role which many academics find hard, particularly 
when sustained pieces of writing are called for, but also one which can give 
great pleasure and a sense of achievement. 
A few years ago, I decided to explore these ideas in greater detail by collect-
ing the testimonies of some experienced and skilled academic writers as 
part of a project entitled ‘Writers on Writing’. I interviewed six people from 
a range of social science and arts and humanities disciplines. All the inter-
viewees had an extensive list of publications: surprisingly, none had ever 
been asked about their views on writing or their recommendations for 
‘good practice’. The interview questions and the answers that I obtained are 
reported in a summarized version below. 
206  The PhD Writing Handbook
What are the skills and qualities of a good academic writer?
For most people writing is something which has to be learnt and has to be 
developed over a long period of time. The process of writing is multi-skilled 
and no one is born with all of the skills that are required. It is a learning 
process that never stops: you can increase your skills over time if you write 
frequently, but it is also possible to go backwards and lose skills. 
One important area is being able to make complex ideas as accessible 
as possible in a jargon-free way. Observing writing conventions in differ-
ent contexts also requires a certain degree of skill. It is possible to be highly 
creative, but the right boxes still need to be ticked if writing for a specific 
audience, for example within a tradition such as ethnographic writing 
for anthropology. The balance between creativity and working within the 
conventions is difficult to achieve, as is the ability to weave together descrip-
tive and more analytical writing. 
There is a need to be sensitive to readers and their capacity to understand 
what you are saying rather than your capacity to understand it yourself. 
Avoid being formulaic when it comes to writing. It is better to have a port-
folio of skills to select from rather than use exactly the same set of skills for 
each writing task. 
How do experienced writers organize themselves and optimize 
their time?
A fixed routine would be ideal all of the time but reality often dictates other-
wise, and writing has to be squeezed in wherever possible. In universities, 
time for writing is unfortunately rare other than in the breaks between terms 
when there are no teaching commitments and fewer supervisory duties. For 
a book with a series of deadlines, a stricter routine is usually required with 
well-planned break periods. 
A useful aim is to try to achieve the highest level of completion (in terms of 
getting ideas down on paper) at the earliest possible stage. This saves time, can 
cut down the number of drafts and will also help you to become more skilled 
and self-disciplined. Another way to save time and effort is by assembling every-
thing you need, for example notes on your reading and key quotes, so that this 
information is readily available to you as you write. If the writing is relatively 
easy (for example, referencing and footnotes), it is possible to input ideas directly 
onto a computer, but if more complex issues are involved, an intermediary stage 
such as writing in longhand will normally be required. As writing is usually seen 
to be the hardest part of research, you also need to ensure that you are in the 
best condition to undertake it. When you feel that you are in peak condition, that 
is when you should attempt the more demanding types of writing. 
Writing throughout an Academic Career  207
How do experienced writers obtain feedback on their writing 
and respond to it?
There are a number of productive ways of gaining feedback: 
• 
Working on joint writing projects, such as co-authoring articles. Each 
person can provide feedback to the other, making use of their different 
strengths.
• 
Editors can help improve a written text in the case of published work. 
You will need to realize that they can see a text from a different 
perspective and are not trying to change what you are saying. Their skill 
is in helping you improve the way in which you communicate ideas to 
others.
• 
Friends and partners can be very useful for general feedback, in particu-
lar in helping rid writing of jargon. 
There will be many situations in which writers will need to cope with nega-
tive feedback and rejection of work submitted for publication. This happens 
to everyone at some point. It is worth remembering that journals are refer-
eed by people who are working under great time restraints and that the 
choice of referee is often arbitrary. So do not be too discouraged by rejec-
tion: this should not be allowed to knock your confidence. In the case of 
rejection there is usually no point in protesting: just move on and submit the 
article somewhere else, after having given due consideration to the feedback 
received. 
How do experienced writers motivate themselves to write?
Even those writers who enjoy writing will usually experience a mixture 
of excitement and anxiety as well. Fear of not being able to fill the page 
is always there, no matter how much you have written. But this situation 
can also produce adrenalin – rather like giving a conference presentation. 
The  first draft is always the most difficult. Once this has been completed, 
working with it can give lots of pleasure. 
There are different experiences of writer’s block, with some writers 
concluding that its importance has been over-exaggerated. All writers get 
stuck from time to time: all agree that forcing yourself to write in such 
circumstances is counterproductive. The usual advice is to do something 
different, for example a physical activity that can help to free the mind. 
Avoiding perfectionism also helps. Many people who get stuck with writing 
want to get it perfect the first time round: this can become a significant 
barrier to success. 
208  The PhD Writing Handbook
What general advice can be given to less-experienced PhD student 
writers? 
• 
Do not think of the thesis as 80,000 or 100,000 words to be written. Take 
it step by step so that it does not seem a huge task.
• 
It is important to have a map or outline of writing at every stage. 
Recognize that the map will change and that it is not set in stone.
• 
In the first year of PhD study, start to work on concrete chapters posi-
tioning them within the existing literature. If the work is broken up into 
specific chapters early on, it will be more manageable.
• 
Bear in mind that it is a privilege to have the time to focus on one single 
writing project.
• 
Make every effort to integrate into the research community and not 
become too isolated. Doing a PhD project should be fun, and life should 
have an element of fun. There is no evidence to suggest that those who 
just work are more productive.
• 
Stop writing only when you have an idea of how you will continue. 
Having to try to remember the point you reached every time you start is 
time consuming. So, whenever you can, finish at a point where you can 
start again without too much difficulty.
• 
Remember that writing does not come easily and involves a set of skills 
that are learnt over a number of years. It is possible to achieve excel-
lence even from a seemingly hopeless starting point. But it does need to 
be worked upon.
• 
Make sure that the text is reader-friendly through the structure, the 
sequencing of arguments, the paragraphing and the construction of 
sentences. You can be too concise, or you can be too wordy: the impor-
tant thing is always to ask yourself, ‘who is my audience?’ and ‘how can 
I best address them?’ 
How important is writing as part of an academic career?
Writing is an important element of any academic career. It involves think-
ing ideas through and making them accessible to a wider readership. Your 
writing enables you to gain recognition within your field. It can also provide 
personal satisfaction and a significant sense of achievement. In the words of 
Wolcott (1990: 21): 
The conventional wisdom is that writing reflects thinking. I am drawn to a 
different position: writing is thinking – or stated more cautiously, writing is 
a form of thinking … . Writers who indulge themselves by waiting until their 
thoughts are ‘clear’ run the risk of never starting at all. 
Writing throughout an Academic Career  209
The different writing tasks that you will engage in throughout a career will 
have one aspect in common: your ability to write will contribute significantly 
to your ability to think. Writing can be seen as an ongoing learning activ-
ity: the range of writing skills that you develop as an integral part of your 
doctoral research are just the starting point. 
A final word
Every time your written work is published and appreciated by your peers, this 
can act as an important career and personal landmark. When you look back 
on your achievement after a suitable amount of time has elapsed, you may 
find that you still agree with the ideas that you worked so hard to express 
or you may feel that you have moved on. Your writing is a record of your 
thinking at a particular point in your career. Successfully completing a PhD 
thesis is one of the most important writing achievements within this career. 
For this reason, I believe that it is worth looking back to see what can be 
learned from the whole experience through the kind of self-evaluation exer-
cise outlined below. Once your thesis is finished, take some time to complete 
it, reflect on it and then pass on the results of your reflections to others who 
are just beginning the same journey. They will benefit from the lessons that 
you have learnt. In the words of one PhD writer, ‘share your feelings of fear, 
despair, anger, frustration, disappointment, happiness, passion, encourage-
ment, bravery and commitment’. All of these will have been present at some 
point, and all will have contributed to your success. 
Task 14.1 Self-evaluation of the PhD writing experience
Getting started
How difficult was it to start writing?
What did you decide to write first? Was this your decision or a decision made by 
­others?
How successful were your early attempts at writing at this level?
Reading routines
How difficult was it to manage your reading?
What systems did you develop for recording your reading and notetaking?
Which authors served as useful role models for your writing?
Writing routines and the relationship with the reader
When did you manage to produce your most effective writing?
How did you transform your notes into coherent text?
How important was the feedback that you received from supervisors?
How did you respond to negative feedback?
➔
210  The PhD Writing Handbook
Writing first draft chapters
How difficult was it to produce coherent first draft chapters?
Which particular chapters were most problematic? Why?
Maintaining motivation
How did you respond to occasions where you felt blocked?
What were the high points and low points of writing the thesis?
Editing chapters
How many times did you redraft and revise each of your chapters?
How difficult was it to write consistently in a suitable academic style?
Developing ideas
Did giving oral presentations help you with producing the written text?
Were there any memorable events that helped you develop your text in a significant 
way?
Causes of satisfaction and dissatisfaction
Which elements of your thesis have given you most cause for satisfaction? Why?
Are there any aspects of your work that you would do differently in retrospect?
How does this piece of writing compare with others that you have produced?
211
Appendix 1 
Useful Websites
Chapter 1
http://www.newroutephd.ac.uk/
Chapter 2
http://the-sra.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/safety_code_of_practice.pdf
http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/secretariat/collegegovernance/provisions/
policies/scientificconduct
Chapter 3
http://www.ethos.ac.uk/
Chapter 5
http://www.collinsdictionary.com/dictionary/english
http://www.iaa.govt.nz/adviser/ethics-toolkit/personal.asp
http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00lskhg
Chapter 6
http://latex-project.org/intro.html
Chapter 7
http://sleepfoundation.org/sleep-news/backgrounder-later-school-start-
times
http://dailyroutines.typepad.com/
Chapter 9
http://www.bbk.ac.uk/mybirkbeck/get-ahead-stay-ahead
http://writersdiet.com
http://denisdutton.com/bad_writing.htm
http://www.guardian.co.uk/commentisfree/2006/dec/04/1
212  Appendix 1
Chapter 10
blogs.lse.ac.uk/impactofsocialsciences/2012/11/28
Chapter 11
http://thesiswhisperer.com/2014/03/26/why-do-people-quit-the-phd/
Chapter 13
http://threeminutethesis.org/
http://www.angelproductions.co.uk/viva.htm
https://www.vitae.ac.uk/doing-research/doing-a-doctorate/completing-
your-doctorate/your-viva
213
Appendix 2 
Suggested Answers for  
Task 2.1
1.	 What are the most successful marketing strategies for airline companies? 
This topic is clearly too broad and possibly too descriptive in nature. Key 
concepts such as ‘marketing strategies’ and ‘airline companies’ seem 
vague and ill-defined. A significant amount of adaptation would be 
required to turn this into a feasible PhD research topic. 
2.	 What is the difference between management styles in Japan, the UK and 
the USA? 
Once again, this seems overly descriptive. It may also be overly ambi-
tious and overly complex in its attempt to compare and contrast three 
countries. Finally, it is unclear what would be included or excluded under 
the label ‘management styles’. 
3.	 What are the most effective strategies for dealing with the latest genera-
tion of computer viruses? 
‘Most effective’ suggests to the reader that there is an appropriate way of 
measuring the effectiveness of different strategies. Value-laden expres-
sions of this type are not normally associated with feasible research 
projects. There is also the problem of defining clear boundaries for 
this proposed research and the added danger of the findings becoming 
outdated even as they are published. 
4.	 Is tourism beneficial or harmful to less developed countries? 
This topic contains problematic concepts that require further defini-
tion. ‘Tourism’ and ‘less developed countries’ will need to be carefully 
unpacked. There is also a need for the nature of the beneficial or harmful 
effects to be specified: will the question be addressed from an economic, 
a cultural or a socio-political perspective? Or perhaps a combination of 
all of these? 
214  Appendix 2
5.	 What are the long-term effects of sleep deprivation? 
This is likely to be unsuitable for PhD research because of time 
constraints preventing the possibility of a longitudinal study and also 
because of a range of ethical considerations. 
6.	 What impact is the land reform policy in Zimbabwe having on the local 
economy? 
There are problems inherent in studying an ongoing phenomenon. There 
may be further problems of data access. 
7.	 What impact will global warming have on the Maldive Islands? 
The scale of this project and its predictive element are two justifiable 
reasons for rejecting it in its current form. 
8.	 What is the best way to improve the pronunciation of students learning 
English as a foreign language? 
This topic aims at finding a solution to a problem which has not been 
defined. It also implies that there are effective ways of measuring the 
types of techniques that might improve the pronunciation of English 
language learners. It is clearly not feasible in its current form. 
9.	 Do high levels of creativity lead to psychological disturbance? 
Establishing such a causal relationship would probably be beyond the 
scope of a PhD research project. 
215
Appendix 3 
Research Rationale  
Template
TITLE or TOPIC:
AIM and FOCUS OF STUDY:
CONTEXT/BACKGROUND:
RESEARCH QUESTIONS:
216  Appendix 3
RESEARCH METHODS and PRIMARY REFERENCES: 
ANTICIPATED FINDINGS: 
217
References
Acocella, J. 2004, ‘Blocked: Why do Writers Stop Writing?’ The New Yorker, 
June 14
Andreski, S. 1971, Social Sciences as Sorcery, Harmondsworth: Penguin
Bauman, Z. 2003, Liquid Love: On the Frailty of Human Bonds, Oxford: Polity 
Press
Benson, P. & Voller, P. 1997, Autonomy and Independence in Language Learning, 
New York: Routledge
Billig, M. 2013, Learn to Write Badly: How to Succeed in the Social Sciences, 
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
Blaxter, L., Hughes, C. & Tight, M. 1998, The Academic Career Handbook, 
Buckingham: Open University Press
Blaxter, L., Hughes, C. & Tight, M. 2001, How to Research, Buckingham: Open 
University Press
Booth, W., Colomb, G. & Williams, J. 1995, The Craft of Research, Chicago, IL: 
University of Chicago Press
Brewer, R. 2007, Your PhD Thesis: How to Plan, Draft, Revise and Edit Your 
Thesis, Abergele: Studymates/Baskerville Press
Bruce, N., Pope, D. & Stanistreet, D. 2008, Quantitative Methods for Health 
Research, Chichester: John Wiley & Sons
Burger, J. 2009, ‘Replicating Milgram: would people still obey today?’ American 
Psychologist 64(1): 1–11
Butler, J. 1999, ‘A “Bad Writer” Bites Back’, New York Times, March 20
Butler, J. 2003, ‘The Values of Difficulty’, in Culler, J. & Lamb, K. (eds) Just 
Being Difficult: Academic Writing in the Public Arena, Stanford, CA: Stanford 
University Press
Cargill, M. & O’Connor, P.  2012, Writing Scientific Research Articles, Oxford: 
Wiley Blackwell
Chomsky, N. 1965, Aspects of the Theory of Syntax, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press
Clark, J. 1987, Curriculum Renewal in School Foreign Language Learning, Oxford: 
Oxford University Press
Colomb, G. & Griffin, J. 2004, ‘Coherence On and Off the Page: What Writers 
Can Know about Writing Coherently’, New Literary History 35: 273–301
218  References
Connor, U. 2002, ‘New Directions in Contrastive Rhetoric’, TESOL Quarterly 
36(4): 493–510
Cottrell, S. 2005, Critical Thinking Skills, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan
Cresswell, J. 2003, Research Design, Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications
Culler, J. & Lamb, K. (eds) 2003, Just Being Difficult: Academic Writing in the 
Public Arena, Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press
De Bono, E. 1970, Lateral Thinking, London: Penguin
Denscombe, M. 1998, The Good Research Guide, Maidenhead: Open University 
Press
Dey, I. 1993, Qualitative Data Analysis: A User-Friendly guide for Social Scientists, 
New York: Routledge
Dornyei, Z. 2007, Research Methods in Applied Linguistics, Oxford: Oxford 
University Press
Dudley-Evans, T. & St John, M., 1998, Developments in English for Specific 
Purposes, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press
Dunleavy, P. 1986, Studying for a Degree in the Humanities and Social Sciences, 
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan
Dunleavy, P. 2003, Authoring a PhD, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan
Dutton, D. 1999, ‘Language Crimes: A Lesson in How Not to Write, Courtesy of 
the Professoriate’, The Wall Street Journal, February 5.
Eco, U. 2015, How to Write a Thesis, Cambridge, MA: MIT Press
Emerson, R., Fretz, R. & Shaw, L. 1995, Writing Ethnographic Fieldnotes, 
Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press
Enkvist, N. 1990, ‘Seven Problems in the Study of Coherence and Interpretability’, 
in Connor, U. & Johns, A. (eds) Coherence in Writing: Research and 
Pedagogical Perspectives, Alexandria, VA: TESOL
Fishman, J. 1972, Language and nationalism; two integrative essays, Rowley, MA: 
Newbury House
Frost, N. 2011, ‘Writing up Pluralistic Qualitative Research’ in Frost, N. (ed.), 
Qualitative Research Methods in Psychology: Combining Core Approaches, 
Maidenhead: Open University Press
Fulton, J., Kuit, J., Sanders, G. & Smith, P.  2013, The Professional Doctorate, 
Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan
Goleman, D. 1996, Emotional Intelligence, London: Bloomsbury
Grbich, C. 2007, Qualitative Data Analysis: an Introduction, London: Sage
Grix, J. & Watkins, G. 2010, Information Skills: Finding and Using the Right 
Resources, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan
Hammersley, H. & Atkinson, P.  1983, Ethnography: Principles in Practice, 
London: Routledge
Hart, C. 1998, Doing a Literature Review: Releasing the Social Science Imagination, 
London: Sage
Hartley, J. 2010, ‘Writing a Structured Abstract for the Thesis’, Psychology 
Teaching Review 16(1): 98–100
References  219
Harwood, N. 2005, ‘Nowhere has anyone attempted … In this article I aim to do 
just that: a corpus-based study of self-promotional I and we in academic 
writing across four disciplines’, Journal of Pragmatics 37(8): 1207–31
Hatim, B. 1997, Communication Across Cultures: Translation Theory and 
Contrastive Text Linguistics, Exeter: University of Exeter Press
Hinds, J. 1987, ‘Writer versus Reader Responsibility: towards a New Typology’, 
in Connor, U. & Kaplan, R. (eds) Writing Across Languages: Analysis of L2 
Text, Reading, MA: Addison Publishing
Hofstede, G. 1983, ‘Culture’s Consequences: International Differences in Work-
Related Values’, Administrative Science Quarterly (Johnson Graduate School 
of Management, Cornell University) 28(4): 625–9
Holliday, A. 2002, Doing and Writing Qualitative Research, London: Sage
Howitt, D. and Cramer, D. 2003, An Introduction to Statistics in Psychology, 
Harlow: Pearson Education
Hyland, K. 1995, ‘The Author in the Text: Hedging Scientific Writing’, Hong 
Kong Papers in Linguistics and Language Teaching 18: 33–42
Levine, C. 2007, ‘The Art of the Impenetrable’, Times Higher Education 
Supplement, November 16
Lukas, S. 1999, ‘Beyond Alphabets: An Interview with Stephen A. Tyler’, POMO 
Magazine 2(1): 11–30
McCumber, J. 2003, ‘The Metaphysics of Clarity and the Freedom of Meaning’, 
in Culler, J. & Lamb, K. (eds), Just Being Difficult: Academic Writing in the 
Public Arena, Stanford, CA.: Stanford University Press
Miles, M. & Huberman, M. 1994, Qualitative Data Analysis, Thousand Oaks, 
CA: Sage
Morgan, N. 2013, Blame my Brain: the Amazing Teenage Brain Revealed, London: 
Walker
Murray, R. 2002, How to Write a Thesis, Maidenhead: Open University Press
Myers, D. G. 2005, ‘Bad Writing’, in Patai, D. & Corral, W. (eds) Theory’s Empire: 
An Anthology of Dissent, New York: Columbia University Press, pp. 354–9
Nelson, V. 1993, On Writer’s Block: a New Approach to Creativity, Boston, MA: 
Houghton Mifflin
Nelson, V. & Lamboll, R. 2012, Briefing Paper: Climate Learning for African 
Agriculture, Natural Resources Unit, University of Greenwich
Orwell, G. 1946, ‘Politics and the English Language’ in Inside the Whale and 
Other Essays, Harmondsworth: Penguin
Paltridge, B. and Starfield, S. 2007, Thesis and Dissertation Writing in the Second 
Language, Abingdon: Routledge
Patrick, P.  1998, ‘Caribbean Creoles and the Speech Community’, Society for 
Caribbean Linguistics XII: 1–14
Patrick, P.  2002, ‘The Speech Community’, in Chambers, J., Trudgill, P.  & 
Schilling-Estes,  N. (eds)  The Handbook of Language Variation and Change, 
Oxford: Blackwell, pp. 573–97
220  References
Phillips, E. & Pugh, D. 2005, How to Get a PhD: a Handbook for Students and 
their Supervisors, Maidenhead: Open University Press
Ridley, D. 2008, The Literature Review: A Step-by-Step Guide for Students, 
London: Sage
Rojon, C. & Saunders, M. 2012, ‘Formulating a convincing rationale for a 
research study’, Coaching: An International Journal of Theory, Research & 
Practice 5(1): 1–7
Rugg, G. & Petre, M. 2004, The Unwritten Rules of PhD Research, Maidenhead: 
Open University Press
Said, E. 1978, Orientalism: Western Conceptions of the Orient, New Delhi: 
Penguin
Seale, C. 2004, Researching Society and Culture, London: Sage
Siepmann, D. 2006, ‘Academic Writing and Culture: An Overview of Differences 
between English, French and German’, Journal des Traducteurs 51(1): 131–50
Smart, A. 2013 Autopilot: the Art and Science of Doing Nothing, New York: OR 
Books
Sokal, A. 1996, ‘Transgressing the Boundaries: Towards a Transformative 
Hermeneutics of Quantum Gravity’, Social Text 46/47: 217–52
Steinbeck, E. & Wallsten, R. (eds) 1989, Steinbeck: A Life in Letters, New York: 
Penguin
Steiner, G. 1975, After Babel: Aspects of Languages and Translation, Oxford: 
Oxford University Press
Stoller, P.  1991, ‘High in Fiber, Low in Content: Reflections on Postmodern 
Anthropology’, Culture 11(1–2): 101–10
Swales, J. & Feak, C. 1994, Academic Writing for Graduate Students, Ann Arbor, 
MI: University of Michigan Press
Sword, H. 2012, Stylish Academic Writing, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University 
Press
Thody, A. 2006, Writing and Presenting Research, London: Sage
Thomas, D. 1999, Culture, Ideology and Educational Change: The Case of English 
Language Teachers in Slovakia, Unpublished PhD Thesis
Thomas, D. 2000, ‘Slovakia: Language and National Unity’, in O’Neill, M. & 
Austin, D. (eds) Democracy and Cultural Diversity, Oxford: Oxford University 
Press
Turabian, K., Booth, W., Colomb, G. & Williams, J. 2010, Student’s Guide to 
Writing College Papers, Chicago, IL: Chicago University Press.
Wallace, M. 2004, Study Skills in English, Cambridge: Cambridge University 
Press
Walshaw, M. 2012, Getting to Grips with Doctoral Research, Basingstoke: 
Palgrave Macmillan
Watkins, D. & Biggs, J. (eds) 1996, The Chinese Learners: Cultural, Psychological 
and Contextual Influences, Melbourne and Hong Kong: ACER & CERC
References  221
Wierzbicka, A. 1997, Understanding Cultures Through Their Key Words, Oxford: 
Oxford University Press
Williams, J. 1995, Style: Toward Clarity and Grace, Chicago, IL: University of 
Chicago Press
Williams, R. 1976, Keywords, London: Fontana
Willis, R. & Cowton, C. 2011, ‘Looks Good on Paper’, Times Higher Education 
Supplement, August 4
Wisker, G. 2005, The Good Supervisor, Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan
Wolcott, H. 1990, Writing up Qualitative Research, Newbury Park, CA: Sage
Yin, R. 1994, Case Study Research: Design and Methods, Thousand Oaks, 
CA: Sage
Zerubavel, E. 1999, The Clockwork Muse: A Practical Guide to Writing Theses, 
Dissertations and Books, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press
222
Index
A
abstract
final version of  187
first draft of  84
guidelines for writing an  85
as a guide to text selection  41
abstract nouns  118, 130, 138
academic 
apprenticeship  4
conventions (see disciplinary 
norms/conventions and also style 
conventions)
publications  9–11, 205
style (see style) 
writing (see writing)
allocating time for writing  
(see under writing)
ambiguity of meaning  83, 118
analytical summaries  53–4
annotating a reading text  51–3  
(see also notetaking)
appendices  65,178, 193
assumed knowledge  64–5
B
bibliography  192
blogging  149–50
brainstorming  28
C
case studies  180
categorization of reading texts 
impossible texts  40
key/important texts  39–40
possible texts  40
seminal texts  39
single item texts  40
useful texts  40
chapters
concluding sections of  96–7
headings/subheadings, wording 
of  86, 88
introductions to  91–5
number of  86
sequence of/order of  83, 86–7
structure of  86–7
themes, identifying/
highlighting  95–6
chapter types
conclusion chapters  90–1, 188
introductory chapters  89
literature review chapters (see 
under literature review)
methodology chapters  83, 89–90
reporting/analysing findings  90, 
171–183
claims/hypotheses
assumptions underlying  45
disagreeing with  45–6
formulating  28–9
hedging  30–1, 129–30, 191
qualifying through limiting 
conditions  29–30
testing  62
clarity 
at sentence level  117–20
Index  223
principles  119
problems of  117–21
co-authorship  10–11, 207
coherence 
across cultures  125–6
at paragraph level  120–2, 143–5
at chapter level  126–7, 146
at whole text level  44–5, 152–3
definitions  123–4
of argumentation  44–5
principles  120
problems  121–2, 126–7
the nature of  122–4
vs structure  122–4
commentary, analytic  10
complex structures  117–8, 136, 138, 
191
concepts
contested  63, 77
dictionary definitions of  69
developing/defining  67–79
fluidity of  68–9
guides for developing  78–9
origins of  77, 79
concept exploration
based on experience/intuitive 
understanding  69–71
considering associations/
relationships  71, 75–6
considering derivations  76
degrees of separation  76
different modes of  78
finding antonyms  75
in writing  77–8
placing on a scale  75–6
through diagrams  71, 76
through lateral thinking (see lateral 
thinking)
unpacking pairs/groups of  69, 72, 78
core literature  36
counterarguments  125, 152
criteria for selecting reading texts (see 
categorization of reading texts)
D
daily writing schedules  
(see under writing)
data 
access  18
analysis categories  173
breakdowns  176–7
collection methods  172    
display formats  176–9
drawing conclusions from  181–3
highlighting key findings in  172, 
175–6, 181–3
layers  181
reporting checklist  188
reports, structuring of  172–5
quantitative, reporting of  175–7
qualitative, reporting of  177–81
transcripts  167, 178, 193
verbatim  178–9
difficult texts
containing complex subject 
matter  134
debate concerning   131–4
idiosyncratic style  134–5
intentionally difficult  136–8
mixed styles  139
simplification of  138–40
translated  135–6
digressions  122
disciplinary norms/conventions  
59–60, 86–8, 120, 129–31, 137, 
139, 171, 173–4
discourse markers  123–4 
E
editing (see under writing)
editing checklists
coherence, clarity and style  190–2
content  186–189
proofreading  192–3
structure  189–90
elegance (see stylishness)
emotive language  46, 50
224  Index
ethical 
approval  l6, 21
considerations/guidelines  20–1
evaluating a research topic (see under 
feedback)
exaggeration  46, 50
expectations of readers
anticipating  142–3, 171
clarifying  13–14, 56, 58, 131–4, 
151
managing  81, 142–5,177
F
feasibility of research topics  
(see under topic for research)
feedback
from editors  207
from peers  111–2, 149–50, 207
from supervisors  112–4, 127, 151
negative, responding to  114, 
148–9, 151, 169–70, 207
self-evaluation/self-monitoring  
66, 110–11, 146–50, 209–10
footnotes  65, 136, 190
H
hedging (see under claims/
hypotheses)
hierarchy of ideas (see under PhD 
thesis)
I
illustrative narratives  95, 139
J
jargon  133–4, 137–8, 207
journal, reflective writing  146–9,  
166
L
language accuracy/problems  152, 
163–4
lateral links in research  23–6
lateral thinking
puzzles  73–5
techniques  72, 74–6
linking expressions (see discourse 
markers)
literature review
across disciplines/alternative 
approaches  58–60
as process  55–8
as product  55–6, 58–60
checklist  187
interim  60
methodology  59–60   
problem areas  63–6
purposes  56–8
structure  62–3
thematic organization of  63
voice, in a  37, 61–2, 65
M
mediation document  84, 100, 103
mind maps  24–6, 109
monitoring progress  (see under 
feedback)
motivation for writing  155–6, 
159–60, 207
N
narrative of thinking  41
notetaking
level 1/surface  47–50
level 2/critical  50–3
sequence of  50–1
techniques for  47–53, 166
using audio recordings for  
108–9
O
obscurity  119, 136
oral presentations
communication skills/
delivery  196–7
content of  194–5
Index  225
criteria for  194–9
dealing with audience 
questions  199–200
research in progress  199–200
role of  193–4
structure/coherence  196–8
tips for  200–1
P
paragraphs/paragraphing  41–2, 120, 
143–5, 190
paraphrasing  48–9
passive, use of the  118–9, 130
perfectionism  157, 163, 207
PhD 
alternative models  7–11, 
by publication/by papers  9–11, 58, 
64, 87
Creative  8–9
New Route  7, 100
professional doctorates  7–8, 28    
quitting a  161–2
stages  4–7
thesis framework  (see under PhD 
thesis)
traditional model of  4–7 
writing tasks  6
PhD thesis 
chapters (see chapters)
hierarchy of ideas in  86 
ownership of  160–1
sections, examples of  91
statements/statements of 
intent  61, 121–2
structural framework  5, 80–91
title  85–6
polishing text  (see under editing 
checklists proofreading)
portfolio of work  7–8
proposal, initial  (see under rationale 
for research)
Q
qualifying research claims (see under 
claims/hypotheses)
quotations 
excessive/inappropriate use 
of  134, 139
in chapter introductions  93–4
multiple/block  179
single  178–9
R
rationale for research
initial  11–13
structure of  32
templates  11–2, 215–6
updated  31–2
readership  63–4, 208
reading
access to sources  38
across cultures  46–7
aims  34–5
aloud  122
critica  l44–6
early stages of/exploratory  
35–6
establishing criteria  for text 
selection (see categorization of 
reading texts)
focused  36–7
intensive  39–40, 110
later stages of   36–7
leaving footprints  40–1
level 1/surface  43–4
level 2/critical  44–6
non-critical/surface  43–4
notetaking for (see under 
notetaking)
problem areas  13, 35, 37–47,  
110
strategies  43–4
redundancy  137–8, 191
226  Index
referencing
backward  92
forward  97
in-text  128, 153, 192    
rejection, coping with  168–70, 207
repetition  128, 137, 191
research 
context  32
distance  19–20, 166
findings (see under data)
hypotheses, formulation of (see 
under claims)
initial proposal  11–12
practical applications of  28
problem/underlying question  27–8
process, reflecting on  183,  
209–10
questions, formulation of  25–7, 36
theoretical basis  18–19
topic (see topic for research)
researcher 
experiences  9,11,58,107,160
resilience  156
rhetoric  116, 133
S
scanning  44
scare quotes  135
self-awareness  16, 146–7, 165–8  
(see also expectations)
self-confidence  159–60, 163–4
self-discipline  147
signposting  65, 143–5, 190
significance of research topics  
(see under topic for research)
simplifying texts  118, 138
skimming  41, 43
specificity of research topics  
(see under topic for research)
style
conventions  117, 128–30, 137
vs clarity  116, 120, 131–4, 136–8, 
stylishness/elegance  130–1
summarizing  34–5, 48
supervisors (see under feedback)
synthesizing  49
T
tables of contents  81–4, 97–8 
terminolology (see concepts)
thematic narrative  174
thesis (see PhD thesis)
topic for research/research study
breaking down a  22–6
choosing a  15–17
developing a  4–5
evaluating a  21–2
feasibility  17–22
justifying a  57–8
originality  26–7
significance  26–8, 57
specificity  22–31
topic sentences  41–3, 125, 143–5
V
vague language  46, 118–9
vignettes  180–1
viva/viva voce examination
participating in  204
preparing for  202–3
role of  201–2
W
writer 
responsibility  125
stance  43–4
stereotypes  2
voice  37, 122, 130  (see also 
literature review, voice in a)
writer’s block
causes of  162–5
nature of  156–8
situations  158–62
solutions/strategies  165–8
writing
and editing  119, 150–3, 185–6
and editing checklists (see under 
editing checklists)
Index  227
as thinking  2, 148, 208
cycle  141–2, 150
engaging with  108–10, 206
experience  206–8
first draft  141–50, 152   
freely  150–2
journal (see journal, reflective 
writing)
locations  107–8
monitoring of (see under feedback)
plans (monthly)  102–4
principles  5
problem areas  5, 10, 13, 111, 148
productive  101–2
re-drafting of  141–2, 145–6, 
routines  100–10, 155
schedules (daily)  104–6
setting goals/targets for  107
skills  206
starting  159
support  1–2, 106
the final version  185–6
throughout an academic 
career  168–9, 205, 208–9
time management  102–6,  
168
