    50→    50→    50→
    51→    51→    51→http: //dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.eurger.2015.08.005 1878-7649/© 2015 Elsevier Masson SAS and European Union Geriatric Medicine Society. All rights reserved. 
    52→    52→    52→
    53→    53→    53→574 
    54→    54→    54→
    55→    55→    55→###### F, Ecarnot et al./ European Geriatric Medicine 6 (2015) 573-579 
    56→    56→    56→
    57→    57→    57→of the article that will come out of your project. Thus, you probably already performed an extensive literature review to establish the current state of knowledge on the topic, and ensure the originality of your research when developing the protocol, and this can serve for your paper. It is helpful, when you are reviewing the literature, to take notes of important points or phrases that you intend to include in your article, with the relevant references. A software program for managing references (either free versions or commercially available products) can be helpful for managing the large volume volume of references references that you you are likely to wade through wade through through before sifting out the most important points. Usually, you will also have the final results of the statistical analysis of your data. This will form the basis of your results section. Some of the graphical graphical representations of your your results will serve as figures for the the article, so it is helpful to highlight the most important findings as you read through the results so that you do not forget anything important. Before starting to write, you should to write, you should write, you should you should should identify the target the target target journalinin which you intend to submit your research. This will have consequences for the formatting, but more importantly, for the orientation of your writing style, since the writing must be appropriate for the type of reader you you are targeting. For example, are you targetingaa specialist journal, where journal, where where readers are expected expected to be experts in your field, or a general medicine journal, where readers may be experts from other disciplines? This will have implications for the amount and type the amount and type amount and type and type type of information information that you you must include. In addition, the editorial editorial policy of the target journal should of the target journal should the target journal should target journal should journal should should also be taken be taken taken into account. account. For instance, in a given area of expertise, a given area of expertise, given area of expertise, of expertise, expertise, some journals favour papers reporting basic research, whereas other journals give precedence to more clinical work. The choice of precedence to more clinical work. The choice of to more clinical work. The choice of more clinical work. The choice of clinical work. The choice of work. The choice of The choice of choice of of the target journal journal depends on on a range of factors, factors, which are beyond the scope of this article, However, at the very least, you should check that your paper your paper paper falls within within the scope scope of the journal you the journal you you have chosen, 
    58→    58→    58→
    59→    59→    59→Below, we will discuss each of these sections in detail, outlining the main points to keep in mind when writing them. 
    60→    60→    60→
    61→    61→    61→###### 3.1. The introduction section 
    62→    62→    62→
    63→    63→    63→take notes of important points or phrases that you intend to The introduction is of prime importance in grabbing the include in your article, with the relevant references. A software reader's attention (Table 1). In particular during the review program for managing references (either free versions or process, the introduction must get the reviewer “hooked”, wanting commercially available products) can be helpful for managing to read more, and thinking to themselves, “How come | never large volume volume of references references that you you are likely to wade through wade through through thought of this?”. In this section, you will thus explain why you sifting out the most important points. undertook your study, what you aimed to achieve with it, and how Usually, you will also have the final results of the statistical this constitutes a useful addition to the existing body of evidence analysis of your data. This will form the basis of your results on this topic. section. Some of the graphical graphical representations of your your results will In concrete terms, you should start by explaining briefly, using as figures for the the article, so it is helpful to highlight the most appropriate references, what is already known about this subject. important findings as you read through the results so that you do You should then narrow the field down somewhat and identify the forget anything important. areas where there is still some uncertainty, citing, where Before starting to write, you should to write, you should write, you should you should should identify the target the target target journalinin appropriate, any previous (and possibly conflicting) data. This you intend to submit your research. This will have will logically lead to a description of an explicit gap in the consequences for the formatting, but more importantly, for the knowledge that your study hopes to fill. This is an essential orientation of your writing style, since the writing must be element in justifying the utility of your work. Having now appropriate for the type of reader you you are targeting. For example, explained how your study is going to contribute something new you targetingaa specialist journal, where journal, where where readers are expected expected and useful, you should clearly state your working hypothesis, be experts in your field, or a general medicine journal, where followed by your objective(s), and very briefly, the strategy readers may be experts from other disciplines? This will have implemented to achieve these goals (Table 1). implications for the amount and type the amount and type amount and type and type type of information information that you you must In the background, the reasons that prompted you to undertake include. In addition, the editorial editorial policy of the target journal should of the target journal should the target journal should target journal should journal should should your research should be clear to the reader, and justified by the also be taken be taken taken into account. account. For instance, in a given area of expertise, a given area of expertise, given area of expertise, of expertise, expertise, state of scientific knowledge with appropriate references. It is not journals favour papers reporting basic research, whereas necessary to cite every article in the literature on the topic; a journals give precedence to more clinical work. The choice of precedence to more clinical work. The choice of to more clinical work. The choice of more clinical work. The choice of clinical work. The choice of work. The choice of The choice of choice of of careful selection of the most pertinent publications is sufficient. target journal journal depends on on a range of factors, factors, which are beyond Similarly, it is not necessary to state universal truths that may scope of this article, However, at the very least, you should seem over simplistic or eminently obvious, Yet you should try to that your paper your paper paper falls within within the scope scope of the journal you the journal you you have achieve a suitable balance between relevant background informachosen, tion, and excessive detail. In this regard, you should keep in mind the target audience you are aiming for. This will depend on the profile of the readership of the journal in which you intend to What are the main sections of a a scientific article? submit your research, as mentioned above. If you are targeting a specialty journal, then your background can be more detailed and The vast majority of scientific journals follow the so-called technical than if you are addressing an audience of non-specialists “IMRAD" format, i.e. introduction, methods, methods, results and and discussion. in your field. Naturally, there are some exceptions to this rule, and you should The introduction should logically flow towards the identificaalways check the instructions for authors of the journal the journal journal where you you tion of the gap in knowledge that you hope to fill. This is your to submit your paper to ensure that this is indeed the opportunity to state the added value of your study, or the new recommended format. For the the purposes of this guide, we this guide, we guide, we we will only information that your study will yield. Will your results change discuss the IMRAD format, as it is the most widely used. clinical practice? Will they help the scientific community at large Your article article should thus contain contain (in this order) an an introduction, to move towards consensus on a previously controversial topic by methods section, a results section and and a discussion. Added Added to this providing hard evidence in one direction or the other? This is your be the the abstract, which is more or more or or<sup>less</sup> asummary of these mainsummary of these main of these main these main main chance to makea sales pitch for your article, in the appropriate sections, and of course, of course, course, the title. At the end, At the end, the end, end, there must be must be be a list of terms, of course. bibliographic references,thethe tables, and the legends to any figures. and the legends to any figures. the legends to any figures. legends to any figures. to any figures. any figures. figures. As far as possible, try to avoid diverging from the subject at Finally, there may also be some other optional sections, such as hand. Every sentence should servea purpose. Manyjournals havea acknowledgements, conflicts of interest interest or authors’ contributions. limit on the length of the introduction, with a maximum numberof 1 of the main features of the Introduction section, with examples. Feature Example Background describing what is known on the subject Percutaneous coronary intervention is the cornerstone of therapy for acute coronary syndromes, but may be associated with procedure-related complications What is not known? What elements are still subject It remains unknown whether. .. to controversy? What is the exact gap in the To date, it has not been proven... knowledge that your study hopes to fill? Cite No study to date has investigated the effect of... any existing data, especially conflicting data There are few data to quantify that indicate uncertainty The effect of... on... remains unclear Objective (+ working hypothesis) We hypothesized that the administration of... would reduce/increase. .. in the context of... Cite the exact parameter you plan to measure We aimed to identify/assess/evaluate/investigate. . . Cite the type of patient population or clinical context Through a prospective, single-/multicentre, observational/interventional. .. study Cite any secondary objectives 
    64→    64→    64→
    65→    65→    65→##### 3. What are the main sections of a a scientific article? 
    66→    66→    66→
    67→    67→    67→The vast majority of scientific journals follow the so-called “IMRAD" format, i.e. introduction, methods, methods, results and and discussion. Naturally, there are some exceptions to this rule, and you should always check the instructions for authors of the journal the journal journal where you you plan to submit your paper to ensure that this is indeed the recommended format. For the the purposes of this guide, we this guide, we guide, we we will only discuss the IMRAD format, as it is the most widely used. Your article article should thus contain contain (in this order) an an introduction, a methods section, a results section and and a discussion. Added Added to this will be the the abstract, which is more or more or or<sup>less</sup> asummary of these mainsummary of these main of these main these main main sections, and of course, of course, course, the title. At the end, At the end, the end, end, there must be must be be a list of bibliographic references,thethe tables, and the legends to any figures. and the legends to any figures. the legends to any figures. legends to any figures. to any figures. any figures. figures. Finally, there may also be some other optional sections, such as acknowledgements, conflicts of interest interest or authors’ contributions. 
    68→    68→    68→
    69→    69→    69→Table 1 
    70→    70→    70→
    71→    71→    71→Outline of the main features of the Introduction section, with examples. 
    72→    72→    72→
    73→    73→    73→F. Ecarnot et al. / European Geriatric Medicine 6 (2015) 573-579 
    74→    74→    74→
    75→    75→    75→575 
    76→    76→    76→
    77→    77→    77→words or pages allowed, so you are going to have to stay focused. You should check the instructions for authors of your target journal carefully for any indications regarding the appropriate length for the introduction, In the absence of any explicit recommendations, it is considered that the introduction should be around one to one and a half pages. 
    78→    78→    78→
    79→    79→    79→The formulation of your objective is of paramount importance, and you should take the time to think about this carefully. The objective must be explicitly stated, and should include the exact parameter you aim to assess, and by what means. The aim of your study as stated in the article is the same as the aim formulated in your study protocol (don't forget - every research project should have a written protocol before starting! ). It is helpful to choose one formulation for your objective, and use the same one throughout the whole paper, i.e. in the introduction,the results, the discussion, the abstract and even partially, in the title. Do not be afraid of appearing repetitive; repetition is not necessarily a bad thing in an article. It shows the reader at least that you know what you are talking about, and using the same terms throughout avoids any confusion. 
    80→    80→    80→
    81→    81→    81→Lastly, a word about the tense to use in the introduction. For many researchers, English is not their native language, and this is an additional difficulty in the writing process that needs to be overcome. You should try to avail of any resources available to you to help you with the quality of your written English. Many large institutions have translators or scientific writers who may be able to translate or correct your text. For those who are not lucky enough to have such resources at their disposal, you should look to important publications in good quality journals for examples of the desired format. Pointers for the tense to use in the introduction are given in Table 2. 
    82→    82→    82→
    83→    83→    83→###### 3.2, The methods section 
    84→    84→    84→
    85→    85→    85→The objective of the methods section is to describe exactly what you did, and how, in sufficient detail such that any average reader with the same resources at their disposal would be able to reproduce your study. There must be a method described for every result you intend to include in your results section — i.e., you cannot present the results of a test or analysis that was not mentioned in the methods. Conversely, if details of any or all procedures have previously been published elsewhere, then a brief summary will suffice, accompanied by a reference to the relevant publication. You should start by specifying the design of the study (prospective/retrospective, randomized or non-randomized, double-blind or open-label, controlled, crossover, factorial...). Any choices of unusual methodology forthe designofthe study shouldbe justified, either by appropriate references or guidelines, or an explanation of the specific context calling for your particular approach. Next will follow the description of whom or what you studied, i.e. the study population (animals, human subjects, cells. . .). For the vast majority of clinicians, the study population will comprise human subjects, and so, the inclusion and non-inclusion 
    86→    86→    86→
    87→    87→    87→should be detailed. The procedures for identifying eligible patients should also be outlined (consultations, new admissions, daily rounds, staff meetings, case review meetings etc). 
    88→    88→    88→
    89→    89→    89→It should be noted that for retrospective studies, the methods should begin with a description of the source data for the study, namely the inclusion and non-inclusion criteria and the final number of case records and/or patients selected. However, for prospective studies, the methods should describe the inclusion and non-inclusion, but the final number of patients included is considered as a result and therefore, should be indicated in the results section, and not in the methods. After describing the study population, you may proceed to describe all the methods used to measure all the major parameters recorded in your study. You must specify the primary and secondary endpoints, with the methods used to measure them. This is absolutely fundamental, since the choice of the primary endpoint is critical to the success of the study. It is the sole criteria that allows you to draw formal conclusions about the outcome of the study, and thus, must be carefully selected. Again, this point will already have been considered in depth during the planning phase. This underlines once again how the writing of your article is greatly facilitated by proper discussion and reflection at the planning stage of your research project. 
    90→    90→    90→
    91→    91→    91→Coming back to the methods, every blood test, intervention, operation, questionnaire, imaging technique etc should be detailed, where necessary providing the manufacturer details (manufacturer's name, city and country of company) for any specific equipment or tests used. Short sentences may be used to explain why each measurement was taken. Subtitles can also be useful to separate the methods section into relevant subsections, e.g. demographic data, angiographic measures, treatment... A short note regarding ethical considerations must be included in the methods section, stating briefly that ethics committee approval was obtained for the study (or if not, explain why). You must also confirm that written informed consent was obtained from all subjects, or from their next of kin, or surrogate, where appropriate. In the case of randomized clinical trials, it is also advisable to indicate that the study has been registered with an approved clinical trial database (e.g. www.clinicaltrials.gov), citing the registration number. Most journals request that the name of the ethics committee and the date of approval be specified, and some may even require the file number to be given. There may also be varying recommendations about where to include all this information. Again, refer to the instructions for authors of your target journal for guidance. 
    92→    92→    92→
    93→    93→    93→Lastly, the final paragraph of the methods section should detail the statistical analysis. Standard statements about the presentation of the data should come first; for example, quantitative, normally-distributed data are presented as means + standard deviation, or median [interquartile range] for non-normally distributed data, and qualitative data as number (percentage). Then, the specific statistical approaches used should be listed - which test for which type of variable; type of multivariate analysis and the variables 
    94→    94→    94→
    95→    95→    95→Table 2 Suggestions for the tense to use when writing your introduction section. 
    96→    96→    96→
    97→    97→    97→Aim Tense Example To describe the current state of knowledge Present Cancer is a common disease To describe observations previously published by others Past (imperfect) Smith et al. showed that drug A reduced the rate of death, whereas drug B did not To describe a process that began at some unspecified Present perfect Several researchers have investigated the effect of drug A time in the past, and is not yet complete on this disease To describe something that has not happened yet Present perfect It has not yet been determined whether. To formulate your hypothesis Past tense for first verb We hypothesized that drug A increases the risk of bleeding Present tense for second verb To formulate your objective Past tense We aimed to measure.. 
    98→    98→    98→
    99→    99→    99→
   100→   100→   100→
   101→   101→   101→<!-- Start of picture text -->
   102→   102→   102→578 F, Ecarnot et al. / European Geriatric Medicine 6 (2015) 573-579<br>Table 5<br>The main elements to be included in a successful title.<br>Pointer Example<br>Cite the main factors studied State the name of the drug or intervention<br>Cite the population/clinical context studied In acute myocardial infarction/intermediate-risk pulmonary embolism/early phase septic shock<br>Cite the design Randomised, double-blind, controlled trial/registry/cohort study/case-control study<br>Cite the main finding Increases/reduces/prevents, ..<br>Put the most important aspect first If the focus is on the intervention, because this is what distinguishes your article from others,<br>then start the title with the intervention name<br>Avoid imprecise formulations that serve no specific purpose Avoid terms such as “a report of..." or “the effects of...". If there are effects, state what they are!<br>Use international common denominations for drug names Clopidogrel, ticagrelor, prasugrel. . .<br>Commercial names should be avoided. They indicate propriety (of the pharmaceutical company),<br>and may be construed as indirect preference for a particular company. Also, they are not always<br>the same across different countries<br>Subtitles should be used sparingly Reserve subtitles for names of study groups, Specific recommendations may apply, depending on<br>your target journal<br>examples of what constitutes an efficacious title. Bear in mind that supported by a reference. However, universal truths or facts that<br>your target journal may havea limit (in terms of number of words are widely established do not need to be referenced (e.g.<br>or characters)on the length of the title. Here again, keeping it short cardiovascular disease is very common, or cancer is a major cause<br>is harder than coming up with a 4-line title. of death). However, ideas, or more particularly phrases or names<br>that were coined by someone else do need to be referenced (e.g.<br>3.7. References patients with the “McConnell Sign” - The paper by McConnell<br>describing the sign should be cited here. Or, patients were<br>The reference section lists all the sources you have used as a classified according to the BARC criteria — the paper describing the<br>basis to prepare your hypothesis, and prepare your hypothesis, and your hypothesis, and hypothesis, and and build your research. your research. research. It is your your BARC criteria should be cited here).<br><!-- End of picture text -->
   103→   103→   103→
   104→   104→   104→The reference section lists all the sources you have used as a basis to prepare your hypothesis, and prepare your hypothesis, and your hypothesis, and hypothesis, and and build your research. your research. research. It is your your ethical and professional responsibility to document your work adequately, and provide full transparency in identifying your sources. It is also imperative to cite the sources on which your hypotheses are based, to prove that they are in fact sound. The references support your work and place it in the context of other studies on the same topic, while at the same time providing guidance for readers who would like to engage in further reading on the topic. 
   105→   105→   105→
   106→   106→   106→When citing references, apart from specific papers that give their name to a sign or classification system as in the examples above, you should give precedence to articles publishedin Englishlanguage, peer-reviewed journals. Citing sections from published books is also acceptable, but you must be very specific and list the exact names and titles of the chapter concerned, with the page numbers, and the names of the authors and/or editors of the book, with its publication details. Internet sites should be avoided where possible, as should personal communications and unpublished data. If you have several possible references, you may prefer to choose the most 
   107→   107→   107→
   108→   108→   108→
   109→   109→   109→
   110→   110→   110→<!-- Start of picture text -->
   111→   111→   111→Many young researchers find it hard to judge when it is Internet sites should be avoided<br>necessary to cite a reference. Basically, any idea or fact that personal communications and<br>emanates from another source (other than yourself) needs to be several possible references, you may<br>Title citing Drug/intervention, Context, Design & Main Finding:<br>Use subtitles sparingly for study group names<br>Abstract: Comprehensible by itself. Introduction, methods, results, conclusion.<br>Explain current state<br>Introduction Identify the gap in knowledgeof knowledge, with that you wish references.to fill with your study.<br>Outline objectives (primary and secondary).<br>Describe in detail what you did, and how.<br>Detail selection criteria for study population.<br>| Methods De tailscribe endpoints all tests, (primary interventions, analyses, and secondary). techniques...<br>Ethical considerations must be outlined.<br>Statistical methods to be described in dedicated paragraph.<br>Describe study results.<br>[|Resuts|} — GiveGiveaa result result for every method present<br>Use appropriate for every  illustrations  method  (Tables  presented and  in previous Figures). section.<br>Start with recap of your main finding.<br>| Discussion PutExplainyour significance results in perspective of results, andwithh o therw they reports contr i nbut th e  literature.to the<br>overall state of knowledge, or how they advance knowledge.<br>Outline strengths and limitations.<br>| ReferencesReferences ListCheck all accuracysources used of allas references,a basis for youreven ifwork.copied from other papers.<br>Fig. 1. Summary of basic guidelines regarding the items to include in each section of a scientific manuscript.<br><!-- End of picture text -->
   112→   112→   112→
   113→   113→   113→577 
   114→   114→   114→
   115→   115→   115→F. Ecarnot et al. / European Geriatric Medicine 6 (2015) 573-579 
   116→   116→   116→
   117→   117→   117→the full text.It is also usually the first item that a potential reviewer will see when being invited to review your paper for publication in a journal. Therefore, it is of paramount important that the abstract be succinct, but informative and attractive, to give the potential reader a foretaste of the main information, and incite the desire to read the full paper. It is the quintessential marketing tool for your work, so it is worth devoting some time and special thought to its preparation. 
   118→   118→   118→
   119→   119→   119→the emphasis of the sentence. The order in which the results or elements of discussion are mentioned may subtly move the emphasis away from that originally intended by the other author. Here again, careful re-reading by co-authors and senior mentors,or members of your publications department (if you have one), will help to avoid these pitfalls. 
   120→   120→   120→
   121→   121→   121→What are the novel findings of your study? Underlining how your findings yield new evidence or a new contribution to the state of knowledge will substantiate the importance of your paper, and its added value for the literature, as opposed to being “just another paper” on a “worn-out” topic. In this regard, you can discuss whether or not your paper has succeeded in filling the “gap in knowledge” that you justified in the introduction. 
   122→   122→   122→
   123→   123→   123→There are a few main points to remember for the preparation of the abstract, but space is limited, so you must keep it short. The main pointers for the abstract are outlined in Table 4. If you have given sufficient time and thought to preparing your project, and writing the resulting article, the preparation of the abstract should not be time-consuming. You will easily find a sentence or two in the introduction that can be re-used in the abstract (perhaps with some shortening necessary). Similarly, the results will be mainly copy-and-pasted from the results section of the article. The conclusion can be formulated as the main take-home message to come out of your work. Indeed, the hardest part of the abstract is often shortening it sufficiently to fit with the word limit of your target journal. 
   124→   124→   124→
   125→   125→   125→Do not be afraid to write an article reporting negative results. A well-conducted study that does not yield positive results is always a useful contribution to the current body of evidence, and you may suitably discuss what the repercussions of this may be. For example, it may serve to advance knowledge in the field by calling into question widely held ideas, or by challenging previous findings, or by reinforcinga small body of conflictual data that may previously have been considered merely “anecdotal”. As long as your study has been well designed and conducted appropriately, there is no reason to believe that your findings are not valid, even if they are negative. 
   126→   126→   126→
   127→   127→   127→3.6. The title 
   128→   128→   128→
   129→   129→   129→In practical terms, you may indicate how your results are likely Last but certainly not least, is the title of your article. The title to influence practice, or the state of knowledge. For example, will should contain keywords to reflect the main issues in your article. your results sway the general opinion one way or the other? You It should also awaken the potential reader's interest, and incite in may also indicate any potential avenues for future research, them the desire to read your work in full. Remember that people particularly new hypotheses that may have been generated by searching for publications on a particular topic will generally be observations on your secondary objectives. Finally, a short using PubMed/Medline or other online repositories, and therefore, paragraph outlining the strengths and limitations of your study your title must contain the principal terms and keywords so that it is useful. In particular, enumerating your limitations has several can easily be identified through PubMed. If the title is badly advantages. Firstly, it allows the reviewers to see that you are formulated, your work will not be easily identifiable, and will never aware of your own shortcomings, and secondly, it provides an be listed in other peoples’ search results, with the result that your opportunity for you to defend yourself on these points, and state paper will never be cited by others since they did not find it or read why the supposed limitation may not be so negative after all. it. Once your title is identified and listed among dozens, if not hundreds of other papers on the same topic, it should distinguish 3.5. The abstract itself from other articles by specifying how your article contributes to the literature or fills a gap in knowledge. The abstract is a short summary of the article in a few sections This may sound like a tall order for just a plain title, but it’s nota (usually background, methods, results, conclusion). It is used for hard as it sounds. Some pointers for formulating the title are given referencing purposes in online bibliographic databases (such as in Table 5. You should look at the titles of papers in highly reputed PubMed), and therefore should form an independent unit that is medical journals for inspiration (both general medicine journals, comprehensible as a stand-alone text, without the need to refer to and the most highly quoted specialty journals in your field), and Table 4 Main points to keep in mind when writing the abstract. Item Notes Background A brief reminder of the context, and a brief statement of the main objective, Should be short and to the point. Two to three sentences are generally sufficient Identify the gap in knowledge that you hope to fill Methods The main methods should be outlined: The main inclusion criteria to define the population Define the study groups, if any Describe (very briefly) the main interventions or treatments State the primary endpoint You will not have room to explain all the methods in great detail, so stick to the overall defining criteria (e.g. adult patients [> 18 years] with septic shock, defined as persistent hypotension despite adequate vascular filling) Results List the main results, with means, odds ratios, p-values, ete for each group. List the result of the primary endpoint first, followed by secondary outcomes Ensure that you have given a result for every method you mentioned in the methods section There should be enough detail to back up your conclusion Conclusion A one-line conclusion summarizing your main finding is sufficient, with perhaps a short sentence with the implications for future research, if you have enough space The conclusion should be directly related to the main objective and endpoint References There should be no references in an abstract Discussion There should be no discussion, or no judgemental statements in the abstract (ie. remarks such as “Surprisingly, we observed. ..”) Figures There should be no figures, tables or other illustrations in an abstract 
   130→   130→   130→
   131→   131→   131→P 
   132→   132→   132→
   133→   133→   133→j 
   134→   134→   134→
   135→   135→   135→576 
   136→   136→   136→
   137→   137→   137→F. Ecarnot et al./ European Geriatric Medicine 6 (2015) 573-579 
   138→   138→   138→
   139→   139→   139→included in it; approach used for survival analysis. .. The sample size justification can be included here, stating the working hypothesis for the frequency of the outcome and its variance, the difference you expect to observe, and the alpha and beta risks used for your calculations. The level of significance for the analyses, as well as the software used should also be included. Any planned sub-group analyses should be detailed in this paragraph, in order to avoid potential criticisms about post hoc studies in non-predefined subgroups. It must be remembered that planned subgroup analyses have an impact on the calculation of the sample size, and the use of multiple analyses may require Bonferroni's correction to ensure that the alpha risk is not inflated. These considerations - again, having previously been worked out during the development of the project - must be detailed in the statistical analysis section. 
   140→   140→   140→
   141→   141→   141→A major question for many researchers when writing the results section is whether to describe the results in the text, or usea table or figure. While there are no strict rules for<sup>this,</sup> in general, results that can easily be described in one or twolines can be<sup>written</sup> in the text. Tables should be used for data such as baseline characteristics, outcomes, treatments, where the same variables are being described for two or more groups. Tables also generally contain the most important results, and on their own, should be sufficient to give the reader a clear idea of your findings. Figures are useful in cases where the source data is either toocomplex for presentation or not easily interpretable. Relationships and trends are amenable to graphical presentation in figures. There may bea limit to the total number of illustrations (figures and tables) that you are allowed, depending on the target journal, so again, check for guidance before including too many. Pay attention also not to include too many illustrations, so that they do not lose their interest, and above all, do not repeat data in the text that already appears in a table or figure. 
   142→   142→   142→
   143→   143→   143→If you are suitably qualified in methodology and statistics, then this section will not pose any problem. If you are less at ease with statistics, your project undoubtedly had methodological support from a qualified methodologist and/or statistician, so you may solicit their contribution for this section of the manuscript in order to ensure accuracy and exhaustiveness. A suggested list of items to be covered in the methods section for retrospective and prospective studies is given in Table 3. As regards the tense to use for the tense to use for tense to use for to use for use for for your writing, the methods should the methods should methods should should mainly be described using the past (imperfect) tense, i.e. we performed, we recorded, we measured, we tested... The pastperfect tense should be used to describe events occurring before your study, i.e. “when thrombolysis had failed, we initiated. ..”. 
   144→   144→   144→
   145→   145→   145→##### 3.4. The discussion section 
   146→   146→   146→
   147→   147→   147→A suggested list of items to be covered in the methods section This discussion is where you interpret and explain the for retrospective and prospective studies is given in Table 3. significance of your results, and how they fit into the wider As regards the tense to use for the tense to use for tense to use for to use for use for for your writing, the methods should the methods should methods should should picture of what has already been observed and reported on the mainly be described using the past (imperfect) tense, i.e. we same topic. The discussion should start with a brief recap of the performed, we recorded, we measured, we tested... The pastmain findings of your study, preferably using the same formulation perfect tense should be used to describe events occurring before as that used for the primary objective (in the introduction) and the your study, i.e. “when thrombolysis had failed, we initiated. ..”. primary endpoint (in the methods). This can be followed by the interpretation of your results. Pay attention when interpreting not 3.3. The results section to simply repeat the results, or at the other end of the scale, not to over-interpret. You should present your findings factually; after all, The aim of the results section is to describe what you observed, this is a scientific article, not a prose novel. For example, if you state without commentary or discussion. It is no longer necessary to in your results that “After administration of drug X, 20 out of describe the methods; this has already been done in the methods 25 patients experienced intracranial bleeding”, then it is not section, so just give the result. The reader will remember what accurate to indicate in the discussion that “80% of patients who methods were used if they read the methods section attentively. It receive drug X have intracranial hemorrhage”. This is a subtle shift is also unnecessary to comment, or interpret, so phrases such as in interpretation that belies that original data. It would be more “surprisingly...” or “interestingly”... are generally deemed to be accurate, for example, to suggest that “our results indicate that out of place in the results section. You must describe a result for drug X may have significant adverse effects”. every method that was outlined in the methods section, and to Putting your results in perspective with other reports is an make the paper easier to follow and read, it is good practice to important part of the discussion. How do your results compare to present the results in the same order as the methods. Similarly, use other reports in the literature? If your findings are different, do you of subtitles (again, the same ones as used in the methods section), have any plausible explanations? What are the possible discrecan help to break down the results into easy-to-follow sections. pancies in circumstances, populations or approaches that may Atypical paragraph of results should start by recalling the type explain why you observed what you observed? Any particularly of analysis (e.g. “QCA analysis revealed that...”), then detail the surprising or interesting findings should be discussed and results observed, referring to the relevant tables or figures (e.g. potential explanations put forward. Can your findings be “the number of lesions was significantly higher in group A extrapolated to other contexts or populations, and if not, why compared to group B"), As for the methods, the results should be not? If multiple analyses or interventions were performed, you presented using the past (imperfect) tense: e.g. “serum creatinine should go beyond focusing on individual results to explain what was correlated with glomerular filtration rate”. the overall significance of the results is, when all tests or analyses are taken together. In doing this, you will naturally want to describe what other Table 3 authors have reported in similar contexts, in order to compare to Suggested list of items to be included in the methods section for retrospective and your own findings. Remember, it pays to be diplomatic when prospective studies, criticizing the work of others. Instead of pointing out weaknesses Retrospective study Prospective study in other people's work, reformulate so as to present the strong “subjects == SOt=CSst‘<s«sCs‘<;73}OW points of your own work - the implication will be obvious, without Inclusion and non-inclusion criteria you having to explicitly criticize your peers’ publications. For Ethical considerations (ethics committee approval, name of committee, +-date example, instead of asserting that “Smith's study was underpowand file number, informed consent) ered”, it is helpful to use a softer tone and a more precautious Primary endpoint formulation, such as “Smith's study may have been underpowSecondary endpoints is a ‘ Ry Statistical analysis ered”, or better yet, “Our study had sufficient statistical power to Data recorded Study registration, if randomized detect”... In the context of a direct comparison, this will implicitly Source(s) of study data Sample size calculation imply to the reader that Smith's study may not have had sufficient Subgroups (if any) Randomization procedure power. For readers whose native language is not English, you Number of subjects/samples Interventions . . pis fat ee ——————— eee should exercise caution when paraphrasing in order not to change 
   148→   148→   148→
   149→   149→   149→579 
   150→   150→   150→
   151→   151→   151→###### F. Ecarnot et al. / European Geriatric Medicine 6 (2015) 573-579 
   152→   152→   152→
   153→   153→   153→recent one, or the one published in the most reliable and reputed source journal. Try to give priority to original research articles, rather than reviews. If you want to cite an idea from a paper where the authors already cite another source for the same idea, then you should return to the original article and verify the exactitude of what you are citing, then cite the original authors, not the intermediate paper. It is your responsibility to ensure the accuracy of all the references you cite, and itis up to you to provide sufficient detail so that a potential reader can find that paper. You should check the accuracy of every reference yourself, even those that you have taken from other published papers. It is not the job of your chosen target journal to format your references or verify their exactitude. 
   154→   154→   154→
   155→   155→   155→following these simple guidelines for each section (see summary in Fig. 1). It is worth the effort of taking enough time to prepare your article adequately, because seeing it in publication is a gratifying reward. After all, sharing your knowledge to the benefit of others, contributing to the body of evidence on a specific topic, and capitalizing on your research with print publications are all components that will contribute to the success of your career. So get out your pen and start writing: it is what your work merits! 
   156→   156→   156→
   157→   157→   157→###### Funding 
   158→   158→   158→
   159→   159→   159→None. 
   160→   160→   160→
   161→   161→   161→As regards the formatting, the style in which the references should be presented will vary according to your target journal for submission. You must follow the journal's instructions for authors on this point, at the risk of having your paper rejected if you do not follow the style guidelines. The work of collecting, storing and formatting references has been made considerably easier with the advent of bibliographic management software, of which there are many different versions and types, both free and commercial (feepaying). If you have such software at your disposal, then use it. When preparing your study protocol and article introduction, you should take note of useful note of useful of useful useful references as you go, by jotting down the as you go, by jotting down the you go, by jotting down the go, by jotting down the by jotting down the jotting down the down the the phrase oF iden you want oF iden you want iden you want you want want retain, With With Chee exact reference detatls exact reference detatls detatls beside it. You You may think you will remember where you where you you saw such and sucha sucha finding, but by the time you have read dozens of papers, but by the time you have read dozens of papers, by the time you have read dozens of papers, the time you have read dozens of papers, time you have read dozens of papers, you have read dozens of papers, have read dozens of papers, read dozens of papers, dozens of papers, of papers, papers, your memory may start to flounder, and you may lose significant amounts of time time reading through everything again to find one reference. 4. Conclusion 
   162→   162→   162→
   163→   163→   163→###### Disclosure of interest 
   164→   164→   164→
   165→   165→   165→The authors declare that they have no conflicts of interest concerning this article. 
   166→   166→   166→
   167→   167→   167→###### Authors’ contributions 
   168→   168→   168→
   169→   169→   169→Drafted the manuscript: FE. Reviewed for critical content and approved final content: all. 
   170→   170→   170→
   171→   171→   171→should take note of useful note of useful of useful useful references as you go, by jotting down the as you go, by jotting down the you go, by jotting down the go, by jotting down the by jotting down the jotting down the down the the References phrase oF iden you want oF iden you want iden you want you want want retain, With With Chee exact reference detatls exact reference detatls detatls [1] Pierson DJ. The top 10 reasons why manuscripts are not accepted for publicabeside it. You You may think you will remember where you where you you saw such tion, Respir Care 2004;49:1246-52. meer and sucha sucha finding, but by the time you have read dozens of papers, but by the time you have read dozens of papers, by the time you have read dozens of papers, the time you have read dozens of papers, time you have read dozens of papers, you have read dozens of papers, have read dozens of papers, read dozens of papers, dozens of papers, of papers, papers, [2] Guyatt GH, Brian Haynes R. Preparing reports for publication and responding to your memory may start to flounder, and you may lose significant reviewers’ comments. J Clin Epidemiol 2006;59:900-6. amounts of time time reading through everything again to find one 3] Simkin. ne oe a ne reference. [4] Powell K. Publish like a pro, Nature 2010;467:873-5. 4. (5] Driscoll J, Aquilina R. Writing for publication: a pratical six-step approach, Int J Conclusion [6] sf ancy owbgbi pal scientific papers. Gastroenterology 2012;142:197-200. Overall, while writing an article from scratch may appear a [7] Whitehouse S. How to write for publication in medical journals. Trans! Res daunting task for many young researchers, the shoes can be [8] Writing for books and journals;https://www.publishingcampus.elsevier,com/ largely facilitated by good groundwork when preparing your pages/14/Colleges/College-of-Skill-training/Writing-for-books-and-journals, research project, and a systematic approach to the writing, hem. 
   172→   172→   172→
   173→   173→   173→svurnar vr Career wuueauun every sues https://doi.org/10.1007/s13187-020-01751-z ® ‘updates: 
   174→   174→   174→
   175→   175→   175→## How to Write and Publish a Research Paper for a Peer-Reviewed Journal Clara Busse'@ - Ella August '@ 
   176→   176→   176→
   177→   177→   177→Published online: 30 April 2020 ©) The Author(s) 2020 
   178→   178→   178→
   179→   179→   179→###### Abstract 
   180→   180→   180→
   181→   181→   181→Communicating research findings is an essential step in the research process. Often, peer-reviewed journals are the forum for such communication, yet many researchers are never taught how to write a publishable scientific paper. In this article, we explain the basic structure of a scientific paper and describe the information that should be included in each section. We also identify common pitfalls for each section and recommend strategies to avoid them. Further, we give advice about target journal selection and authorship. In the online resource 1, we provide an example of a high-quality scientific paper, with annotations identifying the elements we describe in this article. 
   182→   182→   182→
   183→   183→   183→##### Keywords Manuscripts 
   184→   184→   184→
   185→   185→   185→- Publishing 
   186→   186→   186→
   187→   187→   187→- Scientific writing 
   188→   188→   188→
   189→   189→   189→Introduction plan to submit your paper. Each journal has a set of core readers and you should tailor your writing to this readership. Writing a scientific paper is an important component of the For example, if you plan to submit a manuscript about vaping research process, yet researchers often receive little formal trainduring pregnancy to a pregnancy-focused journal, you will ing in scientific writing. This is especially true in low-resource —_need to explain what vaping is because readers ofthis journal settings. In this article, we explain why choosinga target journal = may not have a background in this topic. However, if you is important, give advice about authorship, provide a basic strucwere to submit that same article to a tobacco journal, you ture for writing each section of a scientific paper, and describe would not need to provide as much background information common pitfalls and recommendations for each section. In the about vaping. online resource 1, we also include an annotated journal article Information about a joumal’s joumal’s core readership can be found that identifies the key elements and writing approaches that we _ on its website, usually usually in a section called “About “About this journal” journal” detail here. Before you begin your research, make sure you have —_ or something similar. For example, the Journal of Cancer Cancer ethical clearance from all relevant ethical review boards. Education presents such information on the “Aims and 
   190→   190→   190→
   191→   191→   191→Information about a joumal’s joumal’s core readership can be found on its website, usually usually in a section called “About “About this journal” journal” something similar. For example, the Journal of Cancer Cancer Education presents such information on the “Aims and Scope” page of its website, which can be found here: https:// www.springer.com/journal/13187/aims-and-scope. 
   192→   192→   192→
   193→   193→   193→#### Select a Target Journal Early in the Writing Process 
   194→   194→   194→
   195→   195→   195→Peer reviewer guidelines from your target journal are an additional resource that can help you tailor your — writing to the journal and provide additional advice sabout crafting an effective article [1]. These are not always available, but it is worth a quick web search to find out. 
   196→   196→   196→
   197→   197→   197→We recommend that you select a “target journal” early inthe writing process; a “target journal” is the journal to which you. SO Electronic supplementary material The online version ofthis article (https://doi.org/10.1007/s13187-020-01751-z)contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users. 
   198→   198→   198→
   199→   199→   199→© Ella August Identify Author Roles Early in the Process eaugust @umich.edu ' . a Early in the writing process, identify authors, determine Department of Maternal and Child Health, University of North th d f auth d di th nsibilities of Carolina Gillings School of Global Public Health, 135 Dauer Dr, CS OTESE Si SUMOTS: BUS ISISEUSS TRE TESPORS ae cee 27599 Chapel Hill, NC, USA each author. Standard author responsibilities have been 2 Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan School of identified by The International Committee of Medical Public Health, 1415 Washington Heights, Ann Journal Editors (ICMJE) [2]. To set clear expectations Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA about each team member’s responsibilities and prevent 
   200→   200→   200→
   201→   201→   201→a Springer 
   202→   202→   202→
   203→   203→   203→910 
   204→   204→   204→
   205→   205→   205→J Canc Educ (2021) 36:909-913 
   206→   206→   206→
   207→   207→   207→zi You should care about this research; Additionally, authors should agree on a deadline for each pathis research is important per and the lead author should take responsibility for producing an initial draft by this deadline. 2 What's already known B: about topic ache4 Background > . 3 What's not Structure of the Introduction Section known about topic Background ’ The introduction section should be approximately three to 4 _Whylearn important this new to five paragraphs. in :length. Look at; examples from: your: a aT target journal to decide the appropriate length. This section should include the elements shown in Fig. 1. Begin with a eeech general context, narrowing to the specific focus of the pa5 per. Include five main elements: why your research is important, what is already known about the topic, the “gap” Fig. 1 The main elements of the introduction section of an original or what is not yet known about the topic, why it is imporresearc: article. Often, the elements overtap tant to learn the new information that your research adds, and the specific research aim(s) that your paper addresses. Your research aim should address the gap you identified. errors in communication, we also suggest outlining more _ Be sure to add enough background information to enable detailed roles, such as who will draft each section of the readers to understand your study. Table | provides commanuscript, write the abstract, submit the paper electronimon introduction section pitfalls and recommendations for cally, serve as corresponding author, and write the cover —_ addressing them. letter. It is best to formalize this agreement in writing after discussing it, circulating the document to the author team for approval. We suggest creatinga title page on which all ©Methods Section authors are listed in the agreed-upon order. It may be necessary to adjust authorship roles and order during the de—_‘<sup>The purposeofthe methodssectionis twofold:to explain how</sup> velopment of the paper. If a new author order is agreed __ the study was done in enough detail to enable its replication upon, be sure to update the title page in the manuscript _ and to provide enough contextual detail to enable readers to draft. understand and interpret the results. In general, the essential In the case where multiple papers will result from a single elements of a methods section are the following: a description study, authors should discuss who will author each paper. _ ofthe setting and participants, the study design and timing, the 
   208→   208→   208→
   209→   209→   209→Table 1 Common introduction section pitfalls and recommendations 
   210→   210→   210→
   211→   211→   211→|Pitfall|Recommendation|
   212→   212→   212→|---|---|
   213→   213→   213→|Introduction is too generic, not written to specific<br><br>readers ofa designatedjournal.|— Choosea targetjournalandwritetoitsreaders. Visityourtargetjournal’s websiteand investigate<br>thejournal's readership. Ifyou are writing for ajournal with a more general readership, like<br>PLOS ONE, you should include more background information. A narrowerjournal, like the<br>Journal oftheAmerican Mosquito Control Association, may require less background<br>information because most ofits readers have expertise in the subject matter.|
   214→   214→   214→|Citations are inadequate to support claims.|Citeallstatementsthatcouldbechallenged. Ifaclaimcouldbedebated, itshould besupportedby<br>one or more citations.<br>Tofind articlesrelevanttoyourresearch,consider using open-accessjournals,whichareavailable<br>foranyone to read for free. A list ofopen-accessjournals canbe found here: https://guides.|ib.<br>umich.edwe.php?g=283428&p=1884017, You can also find open-access articles using<br>PubMed Central: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pme/|
   215→   215→   215→|The research aim is vague.|Include enough key information toallowreaders toimagine theanalysis. Be sure that your<br>researchaimcontainsessential details likethe setting,population/sample, studydesign, timing,<br>dependent variable, and independent variables. Usingsuch details, the readershould be able to<br>imaginetheanalysisyouhaveconducted.|
   216→   216→   216→
   217→   217→   217→
   218→   218→   218→
   219→   219→   219→### a Springer 
   220→   220→   220→
   221→   221→   221→J Canc Educ (2021) 36:909-913 
   222→   222→   222→
   223→   223→   223→913 
   224→   224→   224→
   225→   225→   225→- e Did you write to a specific type of reader (readers of target journal)? e Did you follow the introduction guide (upside-down triangle)? e Is the research aim specific and informative? @ Have you included a thorough description of the dependent variables, the independent variables, and every covariate or descriptive variable you included in models and present in the results? 
   226→   226→   226→
   227→   227→   227→- @ Have you justified each of your methods, including your sampling approach, a justification of why you included each variable, your measurement approach and statistical analysis? 
   228→   228→   228→
   229→   229→   229→- @ Have you described your results in words that convey the direction of associations? e Are table titles and figure legends complete? © Does the text of the results section summarize key findings from tables and figures rather than repeating them exactly? 
   230→   230→   230→
   231→   231→   231→- e@ Did you avoid repeating detailed results in the discussion section and avoided presenting new results in the discussion? 
   232→   232→   232→
   233→   233→   233→- @ Have you included limitations and implications, defending your approach where appropriate? 
   234→   234→   234→
   235→   235→   235→- e Are the future steps you present specific? e Are the research aims, methods, results and discussion are consistent in addressing the same (and all) research aims throughout? 
   236→   236→   236→
   237→   237→   237→- @ Is your title informative and interesting? e@ Have you cited appropriately throughout the manuscript? 
   238→   238→   238→
   239→   239→   239→Fig. 3 Checklist for manuscript quality 
   240→   240→   240→
   241→   241→   241→Be sure that the title is useful for potential readers searching Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons for your topic. The keywords you select should complement Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, those : i ae eae adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as in your title to maximize the likelihood that a researcher _Jong as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the will find your paper through a database search. Avoid using _ source, provide a link to the Creative Commons licence, and indicate if abbreviations in your title unless they are very well known, —_ changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article suchcomplete as. SNP, word: becauserather than it is morean abbreviation likely thatAes someoneas a search willterm useto a otherwiseoverseersarticle's Creativein aeunevtnccreditCommonslineeeshito aleaabhtothe material.licence ronsandIf materialyourepsintendedis not erneierincludeduse isin metenotthe help readers find your paper. permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this licence, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/, 
   242→   242→   242→
   243→   243→   243→- Summary After you have written a complete draft, use the checklist (Fig. 3) below to guide your revisions and editing. Additional re References sources are available on writing the abstract and citing references [5]. When you feel that your work is ready, ask atrusted — 1 Michalek AM (2014) Down the rabbit hole....advice to reviewers. J colleague or two to read the work and provide informal feedCancer Educ 29:4—5 back. The box below provides a checklist that summarizes the — 2. _ International Committee of Medical Journal Editors. Defining the key points offered in this article. role of authors and contributors: who is an author? http://www. icmje.org/recommendations/browse/roles-and-responsibilities/ 
   244→   244→   244→
   245→   245→   245→- Acknowledgments Ella August is grateful to the Sustainable Sciences ee aemeenia Institute for mentoring her in training researchers on writing and publishpd ‘ ‘ ing their research. i Vetto JT (2014) Short and sweet: a short course on concise medical writing. J Cancer Educ 29(1):194-195 
   246→   246→   246→
   247→   247→   247→- Code Availability Not applicable. 4. Brett M, Kording K (2017) Ten simple rules for structuring papers. PLoS ComputBiol. https://doi.org/10.137 l/journal.pebi. 1005619 
   248→   248→   248→
   249→   249→   249→- Data Availability Blinded. 5. Lang TA (2017) Writing a better research article. J Public Health Emerg. https://doi.org/10.21037/jphe.2017. 11.06 
   250→   250→   250→
   251→   251→   251→- Compliance with Ethical Standards Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to juris. 
   252→   252→   252→
   253→   253→   253→- Conflicts dictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations. 
   254→   254→   254→
   255→   255→   255→. Conflicts of Interests The authors declare that they have no conflict of interest. 
   256→   256→   256→
   257→   257→   257→
   258→   258→   258→
   259→   259→   259→<!-- Start of picture text -->
   260→   260→   260→a Springer<br><!-- End of picture text -->
   261→   261→   261→
   262→   262→   262→912 J Canc Educ (2021) 36:909-913 F : public policy? These considerations will help the reader to Discussion Mini further grasp the possible impacts of the presented work. Elements 9755 Finally, the discussion should conclude with specific sugRestate main gestions for future work. Here, you have an opportunity to findings illuminate specific gaps in the literature that compel further Significance & meaning study. Avoid the phrase “future research is necessary” because Compare results the recommendation is too general to be helpful to readers. Pathways forInstead,futureprovidestudies.substantiveTable 4 providesand specificcommonrecommendationsdiscussion secStrengths & limitations tion pitfalls and recommendations for addressing them. Impact and applications of research Suggestions for future work Fig. 2 Major: elements of the discussionae section of an original= research Follow the Journal’s Author Guidelines article. Often, the elements overlap After you select a target journal, identify: the journal’s author the main. findings,; which; can usually be accomplished. with‘ a guidelines to guide thesayformatting; of your manuscript and; f full fed references. Author guidelines will often (but not always) inPnNext, Reteninterpretny ATED theACDmeaningEOLeE:or explain; the significance= of clude instructions for; titles, wecover letters, and otherSenay compoOU TeeU It **s** . issieslifting th der’apis 6 Saze fromOm eyth dy’ apeif nentsfully. ofIf you do a manuscriptnot followsubmission.the guidelines,Read theyour guidelines article willcare-be findings to more general applications. Then, compare these sent back to you study findings with other research. Are these findings 0 Finally, do not submit your paper to more than one journal agreement or disagreement with those from other studies? : iiace. 2 ae F D hi rae dditional , d at a time. Even if this is not explicitly stated in the author saat me am eaten ac ; ae baa 1: wR EORSE guidelines ofyour target journal, it is considered inappropriate theories? Situate your findings within the broader context of and unprofessional scientific literature, then explain the pathways or mechanisms , that might give rise to, or explain, the results. Journals vary in their approach to strengths and limitations __ Title sections: some are embedded paragraphs within the discussion section, while some mandate separate section headings. Keep —_-<sup>Your title shouldinvite readersto continue reading beyondthe</sup> in mind that every study has strengths and limitations. _ first page [4, 5]. It should be informative and interesting. Candidly reporting yours helps readers to correctly interpret Consider describing the independent and dependent variables, your research findings. the population and setting, the study design, the timing, and The next element of the discussion is a summary of the — even the main result in your title. Because the focus of the potential impacts and applications of the research. Should _ paper can change as you write and revise, we recommend you these results be used to optimally design an intervention? — wait until you have finished writing your paper before comDoes the work have implications for clinical protocols or _ posing the title. 
   263→   263→   263→
   264→   264→   264→Table 4 Common discussion section pitfalls and recommendations 
   265→   265→   265→
   266→   266→   266→|Pitfall|Recommendation|
   267→   267→   267→|---|---|
   268→   268→   268→|The authorrepeatsdetailed results orpresentsnew <br>results in the discussion section.|—Focusonhowyourstudy fits into thescientificliterature. Recall from Fig. | that thediscussion<br>section should take theshapeofa triangleas itmovesfrom a specific restatementofthemain<br>findings to a broader discussion ofthe scientific literature and implicationsofthe study.<br>Specific values should not be repeated in the discussion. It is also not appropriate to include<br>new results in the discussion section.|
   269→   269→   269→|The author fails to describe the implication ofthe<br>study's limitations.|Wherepossible, identifythe implications ofyourstudy's limitations. No matterhow<br>well-conducted and thoughtful, all studies have limitations. Candidly describehow the limi-<br>tations affect the application ofthe findings.|
   270→   270→   270→|Statements about future research are too generic.|Bespecific! Is therelationshipbetweenexposureandoutcomenot well-described inapopulation<br>that is severely impacted? Or might there be another variable that modifies the relationship<br>between exposure and outcome? This isyouropportunity to suggest areas requiring further<br>studyinyourfield,steeringscientificinquirytowardthemostmeaningfulquestions.|
   271→   271→   271→
   272→   272→   272→
   273→   273→   273→
   274→   274→   274→### a Springer 
   275→   275→   275→
   276→   276→   276→J Canc Educ (2021) 36:909-913 
   277→   277→   277→
   278→   278→   278→911 
   279→   279→   279→
   280→   280→   280→Table 2. Common methods section pitfalls and recommendations 
   281→   281→   281→
   282→   282→   282→|Pitfall<br>Recommendation|
   283→   283→   283→|---|
   284→   284→   284→
   285→   285→   285→
   286→   286→   286→
   287→   287→   287→The author only describes methods for one study Make sure the methods are complete. aim, or part of an aim. Be sure to check that the methods describe all aspects of the study reported in the manuscript. There is not enough (or any) justification for the Justify each approach and variable. You must justify your choice of methods because it greatly methods used. impacts the interpretation of results. State the methods you used and then defend those decisions. For example, justify why you chose to include the measurements, covariates, and statistical approaches. 
   288→   288→   288→
   289→   289→   289→recruitment and sampling, the data collection process, the | Do Do not forget to report your non-significant associations. dataset, the dependent and independent variables, the covari_—_‘TheseThese are still findings. ates, the analytic approach for each research objective, and the Tables and figures capture the reader’s attention and effiethical approval. The hallmark of an exemplary methods sec- _ ciently ciently communicate your main findings [3]. Each table and tion is the justification of why each method was used. Table 2_ figure should have a clear message and should complement, provides common methods section pitfalls and receommenda- _ rather than repeat, rather than repeat, than repeat, repeat, the text. Tables and Tables and and figures should commu- commutions for addressing them. nicate all salient details necessary for a reader to understand 
   290→   290→   290→
   291→   291→   291→| Do Do not forget to report your non-significant associations. _—_‘TheseThese are still findings. Tables and figures capture the reader’s attention and effi_ ciently ciently communicate your main findings [3]. Each table and figure should have a clear message and should complement, _ rather than repeat, rather than repeat, than repeat, repeat, the text. Tables and Tables and and figures should commu- communicate all salient details necessary for a reader to understand the findings without consulting the text. Include information on comparisons and tests, as well as information about the sample and timing of the study in the title, legend, or in a footnote. Note that figures are often more visually interesting than tables, so if it is feasible to make a figure, make a figure. To avoid confusing the reader, either avoid abbreviations in tables and and figures, or define them define them them in a a footnote. Note that there that there there should not be citations in the results section and you should _not interpret results here. Table 3 provides common results 
   292→   292→   292→
   293→   293→   293→#### Results Section 
   294→   294→   294→
   295→   295→   295→The focus of the results section should be associations, or lack To avoid confusing the reader, either avoid abbreviations in thereof, rather than statistical tests. Two considerations should _ tables and and figures, or define them define them them in a a footnote. Note that there that there there guide your writing here. First, the results should present an- _ should not be citations in the results section and you should swers to each part of the research aim. Second, return to the _not interpret results here. Table 3 provides common results methods section to ensure that the analysis and variables for _ section pitfalls and recommendations for addressing them. each result have been explained. 
   296→   296→   296→
   297→   297→   297→Begin the results section by describing the number of participants in the final sample and details such as the number Discussion Section who were approached to participate, the proportion who were eligiblee and who enrolled, and the number ofPparticipantssisal who Opposite: the introduction; - section,: the discussion: : should take dropped out. The next part of the results should describe the aa? : ; Aas qos Ae we ‘ the form of a right-side-up triangle beginning with interpretaparticipant characteristics. After that, you may organize your : : Fae eg ESss iv ees key ouitine th it bee fret tion of your results and moving to general implications ES ae NE Se ee ee eee (Fig. 2). This section typically begins with a restatement of Table 3 Common results section pitfalls and and recommendations Pitfall Recommendation The text focuses on statistical tests rather than Focus on associations instead ofstatistical tests. The relationships between independent and dependent associations. variables are at the heart of scientific studies and statistical tests are a set of strategies used to elucidate such relationships. For example, instead of reporting that “the odds ratio is 3.4,” report that “women with exposure X were 3.4 times more likely to have disease Y.” There are several ways to express such associations, but all successful approaches focus on the relationships between the variables. Causal words like “cause” and “impact” are Only some study designs and analytic approaches enable researchers to make causal claims. Before you used inappropriately use the word “cause,” consider whether this is justified given your design. Words like “associated” or “related” may be more appropriate. The direction of association unclear, Be explicit about direction of association, Instead of*X is associated with Y,” say “an increase in variable X is associated with a decrease in variable Y.” a sentence which more fully describes the relationship between the two variables. 
   298→   298→   298→
   299→   299→   299→Table 3 Common results section pitfalls and and recommendations 
   300→   300→   300→
   301→   301→   301→a Springer 
   302→   302→   302→
   303→   303→   303→freemind25@tutamail.com - Tuta Mail: Login & Sign up for free 
   304→   304→   304→
   305→   305→   305→Cordialement 
   306→   306→   306→
   307→   307→   307→M e s s a o u d     S A D I Architecte-Urbaniste, Manager en opérations immobilières et urbaines, Maitre assistant classe « A » IGTU-Univ-Ctine3. 
   308→   308→   308→
   309→   309→   309→14 sur 14 
   310→   310→   310→
   311→   311→   311→